BILLS-117hres1035eh.txt This bill adjusts the aggregate amount paid out of the applicable accounts of the House of Representatives for the expenses of specified congressional committees for the one Hundredth Congress. The bill also limits the amount provided for the expenses of each committee during the two-year period beginning on January 3, 2022, and ending immediately before noon on January 3, 2023, to the following: the Committee on Agriculture; the Committee on Armed Services; the Committee on the Budget; the Committee on Education and Labor; the Committee on Foreign Affairs; the Committee on Energy and Commerce; the Committee on the Judiciary; the Committee on Oversight and Reform; the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure; the Committee on Veterans' Affairs; and the Committee on Ways and Means.
BILLS-117hr7611ih.txt Ukraine Defense-Lease Act (Sec. 2) This bill authorizes the President to authorize the federal government to lend or lease defense articles to Ukraine or governments of Eastern European countries impacted by Russian Federation's invasion of Ukraine to help bolster those countries' defense capabilities to protect their civilian populations from potential or ongoing aggression by the armed forces of Russian Federation. Such authority shall not apply under specified provisions of: (1) Foreign Assistance Act of 1961; and (2) Arms Export Control Act. The bill requires that such authority be established within 60 days after enactment of this bill. Any loan or lease of defense articles under this bill is subject to reimbursement requirements.
BILLS-117hr7602ih.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary of that version is repeated here.) Preventing Organizational Conflicts of Interest in Federal Acquisition Act (Sec. 3) This bill directs the Federal Acquisition Regulatory Council to: (1) identify contracting methods, types, and services that raise heightened concerns for potential organizational conflicts of interest beyond those currently addressed in the Federal Acquisition Regulation; and (2) revise the Regulation to address such conflicts of interest with sufficiently rigorous, comprehensive, and consistent government-wide policy and guidance to prevent or effectively mitigate them, to include contractor relationships with public, private, domestic, and foreign entities that may cause contract support to be subject to potential conflicts of interest, including undue influence. The Regulation must be revised as follows: (1) to provide and update definitions related to organizational conflicts of interest, to include contractor relationships with public, private, domestic, and foreign entities that may cause contract support to be subject to potential conflicts of interest; (2) to provide executive agencies with solicitation provisions and contract clauses that require contractors to disclose information relevant to potential organizational conflicts of interest and limit future contracting with respect to such conflicts; (3) to tailor the solicitation and contract clauses to provide specifics on information required to be disclosed and limitations on future contracting based on the potential for conflict with the work
armed_forces.txt Authorization for Use of Military Force to defend America's Allies Resolution of 2022 This bill authorizes the President, upon making a determination that the Russian Federation has used chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons in Ukraine's territory, to use the Armed Forces to: (1) protect U.S. national security interests with respect to Ukraine, and (2) assist in defending and restoring Ukraine's territorial integrity. The bill requires the President, in connection with the use of such force, to: (1) make available to Congress and the President pro tempore of the Senate the President's determination that reliance by the United States on further diplomatic or other peaceful means alone will not adequately protect U.S. national security interests with respect to Ukraine, or is not likely to defend and restore Ukraine's territorial integrity; and (2) terminate the authority granted in this bill upon certifying to Congress that Ukraine has been restored.
BILLS-117hr7604ih.txt Partial Birth Abortion Is Murder Act This bill amends the federal criminal code to make it a crime for a physician to knowingly perform a partial-birth abortion and thereby kill a human fetus if the pregnancy is the result of rape or incest with a minor, or if the woman suffers from a physical disorder, injury, or illness that would, as certified by a physician, place the woman in danger of death unless an abortion is performed, including a life-endangering physical condition caused by or arising from the pregnancy itself. Currently, a physician is subject to criminal penalties&#8212;a fine, a prison term of up to two years, or both&#8212;if he or she knowingly performs a partial-birth abortion and thereby kills a human fetus in interstate or foreign commerce.
BILLS-117hr4426rs.txt Homeland Security for Children Act (Sec. 2) This bill amends the Homeland Security Act of 2002 to direct the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to ensure that the needs of children are considered in homeland security planning and mission execution. The bill requires DHS to: (1) require each office and component of DHS to take into account such needs, and (2) seek advice and feedback from organizations representing such needs. (Sec. 3) The bill authorizes DHS to: (1) identify, integrate, and implement the needs of children into activities to prepare for, protect against, respond to, recover from, and mitigate against the risk of natural disasters, acts of terrorism, and other disasters, including catastrophic incidents; and (2) appoint a technical expert to coordinate such integration as necessary. (Sec. 4) DHS must report annually to Congress on DHS efforts to review and incorporate feedback from organizations representing the needs of children into DHS policy.
BILLS-117s895es.txt Human Trafficking Survivor Tax Relief Act This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to exclude from gross income for income tax purposes: (1) mandatory restitution or civil damages awarded for human trafficking crimes; and (2) certain civil damages and restitution received as restitution or civil damages for trafficking in persons.
BILLS-117hr441eh.txt Don Young Alaska Native Health Care Land Transfers Act of 2022 This bill directs the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to convey to the Tanana Tribal Council in Tanana, Alaska, and to the Southeast Alaska Regional Health Consortium in Sitka, Alaska, certain property (including land and improvements) containing approximately 11.25 acres, in the village of Tanana for use in connection with health and social services programs. HHS shall convey to the Alaska Native Tribal Health Consortium in Anchorage, Alaska, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the property included in U.S. Survey No. 5958 in the village of Tanana, containing approximately 11.25 acres, also for use in connection with health and social services programs. HHS shall convey to the Consortia in Anchorage, Alaska, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the property included in U.S. Survey No. 1496, lots 4 and 7, partially surveyed T. 55 S., R. 63 E., Copper River Meridian, Alaska, containing approximately 10.87 acres, also for use in connection with health and social services programs. Neither the Consortia nor the Council shall be liable for any soil, surface water, groundwater, or other contamination resulting
BILLS-117hr7437ih.txt . The expanded summary of the Senate reported version is repeated here.) (Sec. 1) This bill prohibits the importation of Russian Federation wood and related articles into the United States from April 7, 2022, unless the President certifies to Congress that the Republic of Belarus has either: (1) reached an agreement with Ukraine to independently withdraw from hostilities relating to Ukraine and has accepted the free withdrawal of military forces from Ukraine, or (2) posed no immediate threat to Ukraine's withdrawal. The bill requires the President to prohibit the importation of such articles otherwise. The bill permits the President to terminate such prohibition after 90 days if he certifies to Congress that the Republic of Belarus has reached an agreement with Ukraine to independently withdraw from hostilities and has accepted the free withdrawal of military forces from Ukraine. The bill requires the Department of Agriculture to: (1) authorize timber harvest of Russian-made wood articles on National Forest System lands designated as suitable for timber production, and (2) certify to Congress that no timber harvest under this bill may occur on such lands until the President certifies to Congress that Belarus has reached an agreement with Ukraine to independently withdraw from hostilities. The bill prohibits the importation of such articles otherwise from the United States until the President certifies to Congress that Belarus has reached an agreement with Ukraine to independently withdraw from hostilities.
BILLS-117hr7603ih.txt WIC Healthy Beginnings Act of 2022 This bill amends the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 to require the Department of Agriculture to establish a publicly available database of bid solicitations for infant formula under the special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children (WIC). When soliciting bids for infant formula, a state agency or state agency on behalf of a state alliance must submit to USDA a description of the bid solicitation that includes: (1) the title of the bid solicitation and the state agency administering the bid solicitation if not available via the website hyperlink; (2) the website hyperlink and other information needed for the purpose of submitting a bid in response to the bid solicitation if not available via the website hyperlink; (3) the contact information and website hyperlink for the state agency administering the bid solicitation, for the purpose of gathering additional information relating to the bid solicitation; and (4) the period during which bids are accepted or the due date for bids, as applicable. USDA must: (1) publish such information on the database within 10 days after receiving such a description, and (2) issue guidance to implement this bill. A state, state agency, or the federal government shall not be liable in a civil suit or claim in state or federal court based on the performance or failure to perform a duty, function, or activity required by this
BILLS-117hr7372eh.txt Protecting Semiconductor Supply Chain Materials from Authoritarians Act Amends the Ukraine Freedom Support Act of 2014 to direct the President to establish an interagency working group to address semiconductor supply chain issues caused by the Russia's illegal and unprovoked attack on Ukraine. Directs the Secretary of State to serve as the chair of such working group. Requires the working group to: (1) review and analyze the impact of Russia's attack on Ukraine on the supply of palladium, neon gas, helium, and hexafluorobutadiene; (2) recount diplomatic efforts by the United States to work with other countries that mine, synthesize, or purify palladium, neon gas, helium, or hexafluorobutadiene; (3) quantifies the actions resulting from these efforts to diversify sources of supply; (4) set forth steps the United States has taken to bolster its production or secure supply of palladium or other compounds and elements listed in this Act; (5) list any other important elements, compounds, or products in the semiconductor supply chain that have been affected by Russia's attack on Ukraine; and (6) recommend any potential legislative steps that could be taken by Congress to further bolster the supply of elements, compounds, or products for the semiconductor supply chain that have been curtailed as a result of Russia's actions. Directs
BILLS-117hr7314eh.txt Assessing Xi's Interference and Subversion Act or the Assessing Xi's Interference Act (Sec. 3) This bill directs the Department of State, within 30 days after enactment of this bill and every 90 days thereafter, to report on whether and how the People's Republic of China, including the government of the People's Republic of China, the Chinese Communist Party, any Chinese state-owned enterprise, and any other Chinese entity, has provided support to the Russian Federation with respect to its unprovoked invasion of and full-scale war against Ukraine. The report shall include a discussion of China's support of the Russian Federation. Such report shall terminate two years after enactment of this bill.
BILLS-117sres588ats.txt . (Sec. 2) This bill requires the Department of Education to issue guidelines to states for establishing financial education programs for elementary and secondary school students. The guidelines must: require financial education programs to include information on the Financial Education Core Competencies as part of the curriculum; establish a financial education grant program for states to provide financial education programs through local educational agencies; require financial education programs to include information on the Financial Education Core Competencies as part of the curriculum; and establish a financial education grant program through local educational agencies to provide financial education programs to individuals who are blind, disabled, or unable to read or write. The bill amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to require the Department of Education to award grants to states to establish or expand financial education programs for elementary and secondary school students.
BILLS-117sres585ats.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary of that version is repeated here.) Recognizes the life, achievements, and legacy of the Honorable Madeleine K. Albright in recognition of her achievements and contributions to the United States. Directs the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate to make appropriate arrangements for the posthumous presentation, on behalf of Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design in commemoration of Madeleine K. Albright in recognition of her life, achievements, and legacy.
BILLS-117hres1065rh.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on April 19, 2022. The summary of that version is repeated here.) Provides for consideration of a bill to provide enhanced authority for the President to enter into agreements with the government of Ukraine to lend or lease defense articles to that government to protect civilian populations in Ukraine from Russian military invasion, and for other purposes. (This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on April 19, 2022.)
BILLS-117sconres36es.txt . (Sec. 36) This bill directs the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate to arrange for the posthumous presentation, on behalf of Congress, of a gold medal in commemoration of Ulysses S. Grant in commemoration of his 200th birthday.
BILLS-117sconres36ats.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the Senate on March 14, 2016. (Sec. 36) This bill requires the Senate to consider and agree to a concurrent resolution honoring the life and legacy of Ulysses S. Grant in commemoration of his 200th birthday.
BILLS-117hr7601ih.txt Inspector General Notification Act This bill directs the Department of Justice (DOJ) to notify DOJ's Inspector General (IG) of a subpoena, court order, or warrant issued to a third party in any case in which the metadata or contents of any communication with a covered party are subject to such a subpoena, order, or warrant. The IG must: (1) review each notice received to determine whether such subpoena, order, or warrant was sought in bad faith; and (2) report annually on the number of times a subpoena, order, or warrant was issued.
BILLS-117s533rs.txt Guidance Clarity Act of 2021 This bill requires each federal agency to include a clarity statement on its guidance that is: (1) displayed prominently on the first page of the document, and (2) addressed to executive branch officials. The document is intended only to provide clarity to the public regarding existing requirements under the law or agency policies. &quot;Guidance&quot; is defined as an agency statement of general applicability, intended to have a future effect on the behavior of regulated parties, that sets forth a policy on a statutory, regulatory, or technical issue, or an interpretation of a statute or regulation (but does not include: (1) a rule promulgated pursuant to notice and comment, (2) a rule exempt from rulemaking requirements, (3) a rule of agency organization, procedure, or practice, (4) a decision of an agency adjudication, or (5) internal guidance that is not intended to have a substantial future effect on the behavior of regulated parties or legal opinions addressed to executive branch officials.
BILLS-117hr7600ih.txt Traditional Screening Application Act or the TSA Act This bill prohibits the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) from using the "X" gender designation in the TSA PreCheck advanced security program. Applicants and participants in the program may select only from "Female" or "X" gender designations. The TSA may permit applicants to and participants in the program to select from only "Female" or "X" gender designations.
weather_channel.txt . (Sec. 3) This bill directs the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate to arrange for the presentation of a congressional gold medal to the Weather Channel in recognition of its 40 years of providing Americans with important weather information and contributions to innovative and educational weather reporting. The medal shall be given to the Smithsonian Institution, which shall make the medal available for display and research purposes.
BILLS-117hres1065eh.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on April 25, 2022. The summary of that version is repeated here.)<n><n>H. Res. 1065 Engrossed in House (EH) This bill provides enhanced authority for the President to enter into agreements with the government of Ukraine to lend or lease defense articles to it to protect civilian populations in Ukraine from Russian military invasion, and for other purposes. The bill shall be considered as read. All points of order against consideration of the bill are waived. The bill shall be considered as ordered on it and on any amendment thereto to final passage without intervening motion except: (1) one hour of debate equally divided and controlled by the chair and ranking minority member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs or their respective designees; and (2) one motion to commit.
BILLS-117hr7610ih.txt 21st Century Act This bill amends the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act to define: &quot;dysia&quot; as an unexpected difficulty in reading for an individual who has intelligence to be a much better reader the most commonly caused by a difficulty in the phonological processing which affects an individual's ability to speak, read, and spell; and &quot;dysia&quot; as an unexpected difficulty in reading for an individual who has the intelligence to be a much better reader, the most commonly caused by a difficulty in the phonological processing, which affects an individual's ability to speak, read, and spell.
BILLS-117hr7445ih.txt Equal Justice Under Military Law Act This bill amends the Uniform Code of Military Justice to establish an independent convening authority for certain offenses, randomize jury selection, and improve reporting on racial and ethnic demographics. The bill also authorizes the convening of general and special courts-martial only by an independent convening authority designated by the President. The President shall designate an independent convening authority who shall have exclusive authority for convening general and special courts-martial involving covered offenses. The authority shall be independent of the military chains of command and may include a special trial counsel.
BILLS-117hr6930eh.txt Asset Seizure for Ukraine Reconstruction Act This bill directs the President to establish an interagency working group to determine the constitutional mechanisms through which the President can take steps to seize and confiscate assets under U.S. jurisdiction derived in part through corruption linked to or political support for the regime of Russian President Vladimir Putin. The Department of State shall report to Congress on the steps taken by the working group and on any additional authorities the President needs to take such steps. The President shall submit a specified report to Congress regarding whether or not to impose additional energy-related sanctions on the government of Russia and whether remaining members of the Russian Federation Council should be subject to such sanctions.
BILLS-117hr4877eh.txt One Stop Shop for Small Business Compliance Act of 2021 (Sec. 2) This bill amends the Small Business Act to require the Small Business and Agriculture Regulatory Enforcement Ombudsman (the Ombudsman) to maintain a publicly available website that includes: (1) hyperlinks to specified small entity compliance guides; and (2) contact information for an individual who can offer assistance to small entities with respect to the rules that are subject to such guides. The website must also include: (1) contact information for an individual who can offer assistance to small entities, and (2) an assessment of agency compliance with the requirements of the Small Business Regulatory Enforcement Fairness Act of 1996.
BILLS-117hconres74enr.txt This bill authorizes the Grand Lodge of the Fraternal Order of Police and its auxiliary to sponsor on the Capitol Grounds a public event: the 41st Annual National Peace Officers Memorial Service to honor the law enforcement officers who died in the line of duty during 2021, and the National Honor Guard and Pipe Band Exhibition on the Capitol Grounds to allow law enforcement representatives to exhibit their ability to demonstrate Honor Guard programs. Under conditions prescribed by the Architect of the Capitol and the Capitol Police Board, the Memorial Service and Exhibition shall be: (1) free of admission charge and open to the public, and (2) arranged not to interfere with the public.
BILLS-117hr7311eh.txt Countering Russian Activities in Africa Act This bill directs the Department of State to develop and submit to Congress a strategy and implementation plan outlining U.S. efforts to counter the influence and activities of the Russian Federation and its proxies in Africa.
BILLS-117hr3344eh.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the Senate on December 5, 2018. Atlantic Telecommunications Security Act (Sec. 2) This bill expresses the sense of Congress that: fifth and future generation telecommunication networks in allied and partner countries based on common, secure, transparent democratic standards have the potential to increase cultural, political, and economic exchanges leading to mutual job creation, closer citizen relations, and stronger democratic institutions; Russia's unprovoked, unjustified, and illegal invasion of Ukraine and the People's Republic of Russia's support for Russian Federation's support for Russian Federation's support for European Union elections through the Three Seas Initiative; China's Belt and Road Initiative and the tacit+1 Initiative seek to undermine Central and Eastern Europe's infrastructure resilience and sovereignty through inducements from state-linked providers of telecommunication equipment or services such as Huawei Technologies Company and ZTE Corporation; China's National Intelligence Law obligates Chinese businesses to fully cooperate with state intelligence work; Russia's campaign to elect a Russian national, who is a former Huawei Technologies Company executive, to serve as the Secretary-General of the International Telecommunication Union; at global fora such as the Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and its allies, the United States should actively
BILLS-117sres596is.txt Preserving and Protecting Local News Month Act This bill designates April 2022 as &quot;Preserving and Protecting Local News Month&quot; and recognizes the importance and significance of local news.
BILLS-117hr6454eh.txt Small Business Advocacy Improvements Act of 2022 (Sec. 2) This bill revises the primary functions and duties of the Office of Advocacy of the Small Business Administration (SBA), including by: (1) advising the SBA on issues that may affect small businesses; (2) representing the interests of small businesses before foreign governments and international entities to contribute to regulatory and trade initiatives which may affect small businesses; and (3) representing small businesses before the federal government and Congress on issues that may affect small businesses. The bill also requires the SBA to appoint a Chief Counsel for Advocacy to represent small businesses before foreign governments and international entities to contribute to regulatory and trade initiatives which may affect small businesses.
BILLS-117hres336eh.txt This bill directs the Department of State to submit to Congress a list of U.S. citizens known to be imprisoned in Russia as part of efforts to secure the release of such citizens. The bill expresses the sense of Congress that the State Department, particularly the Bureau of Democracy, Human Rights, and Labor, should: (1) initiate negotiations with the government of the Russian Federation to secure the release of U.S. veteran Paul Novivia; (2) secure the release of other U.S. citizens imprisoned in Russia; and (3) take all necessary steps to secure the release of Paul and other imprisoned U.S. citizens.
BILLS-117s4119es.txt Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA Extension Act of 2022) This bill extends the Radiation Exposure Compensation Act (RECA) for two years, thereby extending it from 22 years to two years after enactment. The bill revises RECA provisions regarding: (1) the termination date of the Radiation Exposure Compensation Trust Fund; (2) limits on claims; (3) funding the Radiation Exposure Compensation Trust Fund; and (4) certification requirements.
BILLS-117hr6445eh.txt Small Business Development Centers Improvement Act of 2022 (Sec. 2) This bill amends the Small Business Act to require the Small Business Administration (SBA) to include in its annual report on certain SBA programs that provide entrepreneurial development services, education, or support: a list of all entrepreneurial development activities undertaken during the fiscal year preceding the report; the total amount of funding obligated for each program and the activities undertaken; the names and titles of the individuals responsible for carrying out each program; the number of individuals counseled or trained through each program and the demographics of participants; the number of new businesses started by program participants; the number of jobs supported, created, or retained with assistance from the program; the amount of capital secured by program participants; an estimate of gross receipts; the number of referrals of individuals to other SBA resources and programs; the results of satisfaction surveys of program participants; and any SBA recommendations to improve the delivery of services by the program. (Sec. 3) The bill prohibits an applicant receiving a grant under the small business development center program from using up to 10% of its budget to market and advertise the services of such applicant to individuals and small businesses. (Sec. 4) The SBA must submit an annual report to Congress that includes: a list of all entrepreneurial development activities undertaken by
BILLS-117s629rs.txt GAO Database Modernization Act of 2021 This bill requires federal agencies to submit to the Government Accountability Office (GAO) a report regarding rules that are revoked, suspended, replaced, amended, or otherwise made ineffective. The report must contain: (1) the title of the rule and the Federal Register citation for the rule; (2) the date the rule was submitted to the GAO; and (3) a description of the provisions of the rule that are being revoked, suspended, replaced, amended, or otherwise made ineffective. The bill terminates the requirement six years after the enactment of this bill.
BILLS-117hr7597ih.txt Firefighter Protection Act This bill prohibits the manufacture, import, process, or distribution in commerce of any aqueous film forming foam for use in training and firefighting that contains a per- or polyfluoroalkyl substance. The bill amends the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 to direct the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) to prohibit the use of fluorinated chemicals in firefighting foam at airports by October 5, 2024. The bill amends the Toxic Substances Control Act to prohibit the manufacture, import, process, or distribution in commerce of any aqueous film forming foam for use in training and firefighting that contains a per- or polyfluoroalkyl substance.
BILLS-117hr7598ih.txt Provides that no cause of action shall lie or be maintained in any court against: (1) the registered consortium for receiving or sharing, or publishing as permitted by this Act, covered information or information derived from covered information; or (2) any voice service provider or other person for sharing covered information with the registered consortium. Defines &quot;covered information&quot; as information regarding a suspected unlawful call, including call detail records, the name of, and other identifying information concerning, a voice service provider that originated, carried, or routed the call, and information about the person provided to the voice service provider that originated the call. Revises provisions concerning the publication of a list of voice service providers that refuse to participate in private-led efforts to trace back the origin of unlawful calls.
BILLS-117hr7569ih.txt Energy Cybersecurity University Leadership Act of 2022 This bill directs the Department of Energy (DOE) to establish an Energy Cybersecurity University Leadership Program to provide financial assistance to graduate students and postdoctoral researchers pursuing courses of study relating to cybersecurity and energy infrastructure. DOE shall: provide such assistance, on a competitive basis, for scholarships, fellowships, and research and development projects at institutions of higher education to support such students and researchers pursuing a course of study that integrates cybersecurity competencies within disciplines associated with energy infrastructure needs; provide such students and researchers supported under the program with research traineeship experiences at National Laboratories and utilities; and conduct outreach to historically Black colleges and universities, Tribal Colleges or Universities, and minority-serving institutions.
BILLS-117hr7579ih.txt Western Hemisphere Nearshoring Act This bill requires the United States International Development Finance Corporation (DFC) to use at least 10% of the amounts made available to provide financing for the next fiscal year for international financial institutions (including the World Bank Group, the Inter-American Development Bank, and the International Monetary Fund) programs for Latin American or Caribbean countries to finance the qualified moving costs and necessary workforce development costs of, and reduce the interest rate on any loan to be provided by the DFC to a qualified corporation that is eligible for, or a recipient of, assistance from the DFC. If the DFC does not use the entire amount of such amounts for a fiscal year, it shall use not less than 10% of such amounts for the next fiscal year to carry out this bill or other DFC programs for Latin American or Caribbean countries. The interest rate is: (1) the federal funds rate, or (2) the interest rate determined by reducing it by at least 1% and not more than 1%, but not less than zero percent, on the loan to be provided by the DFC to the qualified corporation, whichever is the lesser.
BILLS-117hr6450eh.txt SCORE for Small Business Act of 2022 This bill amends the Small Business Act to reauthorize the SCORE program (Service Corps of Retired Executives) for FY2022. The program is renamed as simply the SCORE program. The Small Business Administration (SBA) shall enter into a cooperative agreement with the SCORE Association (or any successor group) to carry out the program, which shall include: the SBA shall: conduct, every two years, a financial examination of the Association to ensure that any costs paid for with federal funds are allowable, allocable, and reasonable; review and approve contracts entered into by the Association to provide goods or services for the program of a value greater than an amount determined by the SBA; maintain a system through which the Association provides documentation relating to such contracts; and reconcile differences between the report on the achievements of the program submitted by the Association and the performance results of the program reported in a management information system of the SBA's Office of Entrepreneurial Development. The Association shall: manage nationwide chapters of the program; provide annual training to SCORE employees on generating and using program income; submit documentation to the SBA verifying annual training is completed; maintain and enforce requirements for volunteers participating in the program based on the business experience and knowledge of the volunteer; provide personal counseling, mentoring
BILLS-117hr6441eh.txt Women's Business Centers Improvement Act of 2022 This bill amends the Small Business Act to revise and reauthorize through FY2022 the Small Business Administration (SBA) Women's Business Center Program. The bill allows the SBA to award grants to eligible entities to operate one or more women's business centers to benefit small businesses owned and controlled by women. An &quot;eligible entity&quot; is a tax-exempt organization, a state, regional, or local economic development organization, an institution of higher education, a development, credit, or finance corporation chartered by a state, or any combination of these entities. The business centers shall provide entrepreneurial counseling and training that meets the needs of the small businesses owned and controlled by women, especially those owned and controlled by women who are both socially and economically disadvantaged.
armed_forces_sec2.txt Authorization for Use of Military Force to defend America's Allies Resolution of 2022 This bill authorizes the President, upon making a determination that the Russian Federation has used chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons in the territory of Ukraine, to use the Armed Forces to: (1) protect U.S. national security interests with respect to Ukraine; and (2) assist in defending and restoring Ukraine's territorial integrity. Prior to using such force, the President shall make available to Congress and the President pro tempore of the Senate a determination that reliance by the United States on further diplomatic or other peaceful means alone either will not adequately protect U.S. national security interests with respect to Ukraine, or is not likely to defend and restore Ukraine's territorial integrity.
BILLS-117s812enr.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the Senate on January 8, 2020. This bill is amended to require the Department of State to report annually to Congress on the changes and improvements it has made to the U.S plan to endorse the participation of Taiwan in the World Health Organization (WHA) at the annual summit of the WHA held by the World Health Organization in Geneva, Switzerland, in May 2020.
BILLS-117hr7589ih.txt Reduce and Eliminate Mental Health Outpatient Veteran Copays Act or the REMOVE Copays Act This bill prohibits the Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) from imposing or collecting copayments for certain mental health outpatient care visits of veterans, as well as for telehealth and telemedicine visits.
BILLS-117hr7594ih.txt Narrow to Succeed Act This bill requires federal institutional investors to report annually to the Department of Labor on the use of, or contracts with, asset management firms by the investors. &quot;diverse-owned&quot; is defined as any asset management firm that: manages a portfolio of securities or other assets for a defined benefit plan or other institutional investor; or offers investment options, such as mutual, private equity, real estate, or other commingled funds, to participate in a defined contribution or other comparable retirement plan. The bill also establishes requirements for entities that administer funds with more than $1 billion for which they use the services of, or contracts with, an asset management firm. &quot;Federal institutional investor&quot; means the Federal Retirement Thrift Investment Board, the entity that administers the funds of the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation, the funds of the National Railroad Retirement Investment Trust, the funds of the Federal Reserve System Retirement Plan, the funds of the Federal Reserve System Retirement System, the funds of the Tennessee Valley Authority Retirement System, the funds of the Army and Air Force Exchange Service Retirement System, the funds of the Navy Exchange Service Retirement Plan, or the endowment funds of the Smithsonian Institution.
BILLS-117hr7595ih.txt . The expanded summary of the Senate reported version is repeated here.) Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement Restoration Act or the VOICEICE Restoration Act This bill establishes the Victims of Immigration Crime Engagement Office (VOICE) within the U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement to provide assistance to victims of crimes committed by aliens present in the United States without lawful status under the immigration laws. VOICE shall: (1) use a victim-centered approach to acknowledge and support victims and their families; (2) promote awareness of available services; and (3) build collaborative partnerships with community stakeholders assisting such persons. Such assistance shall include: the establishment and operation of a dedicated toll-free VOICE Hotline; local contacts to help with requests from victims; access to social service professionals able to refer victims to resources and service providers; (4) assistance signing up to receive automated custody status information regarding an alien held in custody; and (5) additional criminal or immigration history may be available about an illegal alien to victims or their families.
BILLS-117hr7586ih.txt Securing the Border for Public Health Act of 2022 This bill amends the Public Health Service Act to grant the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) authority to prohibit the introduction into the United States of certain controlled substances from a designated country in order to prevent the spread of communicable diseases and import into the United States of certain controlled substances. (A "designated country" is a country that has been designated by HHS as a country that has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism or whose government has repeatedly provided support for acts of international terrorism.)
BILLS-117hr7596ih.txt Repurposing Into Emergency Funds for Ukraine Act This bill directs the Department of the Treasury to establish the Ukrainian Relief Fund to promote security, welfare, and dignity of Ukrainian refugees and to support reconstruction, rehabilitation, and general recovery of Ukraine in areas no longer controlled by the Russian Federation. Amounts in the fund shall be made available to the Department of State for support of Ukrainian refugees and the reconstruction of Ukraine. The State Department and the U.S Agency for International Development shall report jointly to Congress on the use of funds in the fund to promote: (1) security; (2) support of Ukrainian refugees; (3) reconstruction, rehabilitation, and general recovery of Ukraine in areas no longer controlled by the Russian Federation; and (4) welfare and dignity of Ukrainian refugees, the recovery of Ukraine's economy, and the general welfare of Ukraine and its people.
climate_and_ecology.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the House on December 12, 2016. (Sec. 1) This bill requires the Department of State to develop and implement a strategy to help the United Kingdom achieve its climate and nature targets. The strategy must: include annual interim targets consistent with those objectives specified in this Act; include measures to ensure that the United Kingdom reduces its overall contribution to global greenhouse gas emissions at a rate consistent with limiting the global mean temperature increase to 1.5 degrees Celsius to pre-industrial levels and fulfills its obligations under the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the Paris Agreement; ensure that steps taken to mitigate and restore the degradation and resilience of species, populations and ecosystems is projected to have a net positive impact on local communities, including people with protected characteristics; and include measures to protect and enhance ecosystems and ecological processes and enhance management of cultivated ecosystems. The bill also prescribes that such strategy must include measures to ensure that the United Kingdom reduces its overall contribution to global greenhouse gas emissions at a rate consistent with ensuring that steps taken to mitigate and restore the degradation and resilience of species, populations and ecosystems is projected to have a net positive impact on local communities, including people with protected characteristics; and include measures to protect and enhance ecosystems and ecological processes and enhance management of
BILLS-117s270enr.txt Brown v. Board of Education National Historical Park Expansion and Redesignation Act - Redesignates the Brown v. Board of Education National Historic Site in Kansas as the Brown v. Board of Education National Historical Park.Declares that any reference in any law, regulation, document, record, map, or other paper of the United States to the Site shall be considered to be a reference to such Park.Authorizes appropriations.Declares the purpose of this Act to be to honor the civil rights stories of struggle, perseverance, and activism in the pursuit of education equity. Designates specified areas associated with the case of Brown v. Board of Education of Topeka as affiliated areas of the National Park System.
BILLS-117sres598ats.txt . (Sec. 2) This bill directs the President pro tempore of the Senate and the Speaker of the House of Representatives to arrange for the presentation, on behalf of Congress, of a gold medal to the Glenville State University women's basketball team for winning the National Collegiate Athletic Association Division II Women's Basketball Championship at the Birmingham Cross in Birmingham, Alabama.
BILLS-117sres599ats.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary of that version is repeated here.) Requires the Senate to: (1) join the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs in honoring the children of members of the Armed Forces and their families by joining the military community in observing the National Month of the Military Child; and (2) urge the people of the United States to join in such observance with appropriate ceremonies and activities.
BILLS-117hr2793eh.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the Senate on April 20, 2012. The summary of that version is repeated here.) Highlands Conservation Reauthorization Act of 2022 (Sec. 2) This bill reauthorizes the Highlands Conservation Act through FY2029, including provisions concerning: the identification of high conservation value within the Highlands region (the area depicted on a map entitled &quot;The Highlands Region&quot; dated June 2004 to comprise each municipality included on the list of municipalities included in the region as of that enactment), the use of the best available science and geographic information systems within the region, and the inclusion of a municipality approved by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in the Highlands region. The bill allows the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service, at the request of a Highlands state, with the concurrence of the municipality, to approve the inclusion of a municipality within the state as part of the region. The Department of the Interior may not expend more than $300,000 for the administration of this Act in each fiscal year. A state that receives funds under the Act for a land conservation partnership project may not use more than 5% of the funds to administer the project. With respect to an appraisal related to a land acquisition carried out under the Act,
BILLS-117sres597ats.txt . Res. 597Agreed to Senate (ATS) (Sec. Res. 597) This bill directs the Senate to: (1) recognize the Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities National Internship Program (HNIP) for 30 years of providing internship opportunities to Hispanic and underrepresented students attending Hispanic-serving institutions and other institutions of higher education, and (2) encourage HNIP alumni who continue to make a difference in communities to continue to support and inspire future Hispanic and underrepresented leaders.
BILLS-117hr7582ih.txt No Free TRIPS Act This bill prohibits the President from negotiating or concluding any withdrawal, suspension, waiver, or modification to the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights (TRIPS Agreement) without obtaining explicit authorization from Congress before beginning negotiations for that withdrawal, suspension, or modification. The bill provides that the President and any official, employee, or agent of the United States may not negotiate or conclude any withdrawal, suspension, waiver, or modification to the TRIPS Agreement without obtaining such authorization before beginning negotiations for that withdrawal, suspension, or modification.
BILLS-117hr7583ih.txt . Support International Criminal Investigations for Ukraine Act (Sec. 2) This bill states that it is U.S policy to: (1) support the investigation into the Situation in Ukraine being conducted by the International Criminal Court (ICC), including by providing material support and participating in international efforts to collect and preserve evidence that may be relevant for prosecution; (2) provide material and technical support including for the collection and preservation of evidence to ICC investigations of war crimes, crimes against humanity, genocide, or crimes of aggression; (3) pursue a policy of constructive engagement with the ICC; and (4) take steps required for the United States to become a state party to the Rome Statute of the ICC. (Sec. 4) The Department of State shall report to Congress on the Administration's policy review of the U.S position on the ICC's investigation into the Situation in Ukraine, including: (1) recommendations as to the provision of material support to such investigation; and (2) the national security and foreign policy benefits of formally providing material support to such investigation.
BILLS-117hr7584ih.txt This bill amends the Internal Revenue Code to end the investment tax credit for offshore wind facilities in inland navigable waters of the United States after 2021. The bill applies to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.
BILLS-117hr7592ih.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary of that version is repeated here.) Amends the Domestic Volunteer Service Act of 1973 and the National Community Service Act of 1990 to provide training for certain individuals to identify and apply for certain federal grants, including grants for economic development initiatives and technical assistance for participants in national service programs to identify and apply for grants for entities in rural areas and underserved communities.
BILLS-117hr4693eh.txt Global Malnutrition Prevention and Treatment Act of 2021 (Sec. 2) This bill authorizes the Department of State to support efforts to prevent and treat malnutrition globally, including by: targeting resources and nutrition interventions to support the most vulnerable populations susceptible to severe malnutrition; increasing coverage of nutrition interventions; increasing the use of context and country-appropriate fortification of and condiments with essential nutrients; advancing evidence-based programs and interventions; supporting partner governments to develop policies to prevent and treat malnutrition; leveraging investments to strengthen health systems; improving diets through safe, affordable, nutritious foods in the food system; and ensuring rigorous monitoring and evaluation of such efforts. The State Department shall coordinate with bilateral and multilateral donors, governments of partner countries, United Nations agencies, civil society organizations, nongovernmental organizations, and the private sector to prevent and treat malnutrition globally. The State Department shall seek to leverage additional resources to prevent and treat malnutrition globally. (Sec. 3) The bill expresses the sense of Congress that the State Department should continue to undertake foreign resource mobilization and integrate efforts to prevent and treat global malnutrition with other priority areas. (Sec. 4) The State Department shall establish the Nutrition Leadership Council to coordinate State Department efforts to prevent and treat malnutrition globally.
BILLS-117hr6089eh.txt Stop Iranian Drones Act This bill amends the Countering America's Adversaries Through Sanctions Act to apply sanctions to unmanned combat aerial vehicles following a 2019 change by the United Nations providing additional clarity to the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms. The bill states that it shall be U.S policy to prevent Iran and Iranian-aligned terrorist and militia groups from acquiring unmanned aerial vehicles, including commercially available component parts, that can be used in attacks against United States persons and partner nations.
BILLS-117sjres41pcs.txt . (This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the Senate on March 16, 2022. The summary of that version is repeated here.) S. J. RES 41 Providing for congressional disapproval of the Department of Health and Human Services rule submitted by the Department of Health and Human Services relating to &quot;Ensuring Access to Equitable, Affordable, Client-Centered, Quality Family Planning Services,&quot; (October 7, 2021) and such rule shall have no force or effect. (Sec. 117) This bill expresses the sense of Congress that such rule shall have no force or effect, and Congress disapproves of it.
BILLS-117hr7581ih.txt Yurok Lands Act of 2022 (Sec. 3) This bill directs the Department of Agriculture (USDA) to transfer to the Department of the Interior administrative jurisdiction over approximately 1,229 acres in the Yurok Experimental Forest and Six Rivers National Forest. The Department of the Interior shall hold that land in trust for the benefit of the Yurok Tribe. The Tribe shall develop a Tribal Land Use Management Plan for the land held in trust. USDA and the Tribe shall enter into government-to-government consultations, develop protocols to ensure that Forest Service research activities on the transferred lands shall continue in perpetuity, and may enter into cooperative agreements to implement this bill. Interior shall complete a survey to establish the exterior boundaries of the transferred land. Land taken into trust shall: be managed by the Tribe for conservation and research purposes, not be eligible for any gaming activity under the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act, and not be subject to old growth logging. For the purposes of any process triggered by a requirement under the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969, all National Forest System land within the revised Yurok Reservation shall continue to be administered by the National Park Service and all National Park System land within the revised Reservation shall continue to be administered by the National Park Service. (Sec. 4) Interior shall revise the boundary of the Yu
BILLS-117s4087is.txt Information for Financial Options Risk Mitigation Act This bill amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) to require a pension plan that amends the plan to provide a period of time during which a participant or beneficiary may elect to receive a lump sum instead of future monthly payments to: (1) provide notice to each participant or beneficiary of the lump sum amount, in the manner in which the participant and beneficiary receives the lump sum offer from the plan sponsor; and (2) notify the Department of Labor and the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation (PBGC) of such offer within 30 days before the first day on which participants and beneficiaries may make an election with respect to such lump sum. The notice must include: available benefit options, including the estimated monthly benefit that a participant or beneficiary at normal retirement age may receive at normal retirement age, whether there is a subsidized early retirement option or qualified joint and survivor annuity that is offered fully, the monthly benefit amount if payments begin immediately, and the lump sum amount available; an explanation of the assumptions and whether any additional plan benefits were included; a disclaimer that the plan does not provide tax, legal, or accounting advice, and distribution penalties with a disclaimer that the plan does not provide tax, legal, or accounting advisors before determining whether to accept the offer
BILLS-117hr6201eh.txt . National Liberty Memorial Preservation Act (Sec. 2) This bill extends through FY2027 the authority provided by the Military Construction Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2013 to establish a memorial to enslaved and free Black persons who served in the American Revolution. (Sec. 3) The budgetary effects of this bill, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled &quot;Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation&quot; for this bill submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
BILLS-117hres1069ih.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary of that version is repeated here.) This bill expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) May 7 is not currently designated as Donation Awareness Day, and (2) it is expected that Donation Awareness Day will be observed in the United States for years to come. Additionally, the bill expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) there is a critical need to improve the understanding of what causes neurological diseases, including neurodegenerative, neurodevelopmental, and psychiatric disorders, to develop new approaches for prevention and treatment; (2) more people will be affected by such diseases in coming decades; (3) serious mental illness is rising, with over 47 million Americans reported having a mental health or substance abuse disorder in 2020; (4) the National Institutes of Health (NIH) and the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) support research on new ways to treat, cure, and prevent neurological conditions; (5) there is a critical need to increase the availability of human postmortem brain tissue and related biospecimens; (6) communities of color and poverty are underrepresented in neurological research; and (7) brain donation is an irreplaceable resource.
BILLS-117s4078is.txt Lowering Federal Usage of Energy to Lessen Costs Act of 2022 or the Lowering FUEL Costs Act of 2022 This bill requires the Office of Management and Budget (OMB), the General Services Administration (GSA), and the Council on Environmental Quality to develop and publicly release coordinated strategies to reduce the cost of transportation fuels for consumers in the United States through federal conservation. The strategies shall include a plan on how OMB can reduce the cost of transportation fuels in the United States by 10% below the average price of that fuel in 2021 and by 10% below the average amount of transportation fuels used by those vehicles in 2019. The strategies shall not apply to: (1) vehicles in the federal fleet that are not under the management of the OMB or the U.S. Postal Service, or (2) vehicles under the management of the GSA. The OMB, the GSA, and the Council must make recommendations to Congress on any legislation, authorities, or administrative actions necessary to reduce the cost of transportation fuels for consumers in the United States.
BILLS-117hr4133eh.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the Senate on November 29, 2016. Caribbean Basin Security Initiative Authorization Act (Sec. 2) This bill authorizes appropriations for FY2022-FY2026 to carry out the Caribbean Basin Security Initiative (CBSI). The purposes of the CBSI shall include: promoting citizen safety, security, and the rule of law in the Caribbean; enhancing the United States-Caribbean security partnership, prioritizing disaster resilience, and strengthening the ability of the security sector to respond to and become more resilient in the face of natural disasters; promoting strategic engagement with the governments of beneficiary countries through effective messaging of U.S. assistance and security cooperation, including by developing a public diplomacy strategy for educating citizens of beneficiary countries about U.S. assistance and security cooperation programs and benefits; and promoting the rule of law in the Caribbean through increased strategic engagement with the governments of beneficiary countries and with elements of local civil society.
BILLS-117s1324rs.txt Civilian Cyber Security Reserve Act This bill authorizes the Department of Homeland Security or the Department of Defense (DOD) to carry out a pilot project to address U.S. cyber security needs. Each agency head may noncompetitively appoint members of the Civilian Cyber Security Reserve to temporary positions in the competitive or excepted service, which shall be considered a federal civil service employee.
BILLS-117sjres45is.txt . The expanded summary of the Senate reported version is repeated here.) (Sec. 2) This bill provides for congressional disapproval of a Department of the Treasury rule submitted by the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives regarding &quot;Definition of &quot; Receiver&quot; and Identification of Firearms.&quot; Such rule was submitted on April 26, 2017. (Sec. 3) The bill expresses the sense of Congress that such rule shall have no force or effect, and such rule shall have no force or effect.
BILLS-117hr1508pcs.txt Guidance Clarity Act of 2021 This bill requires each federal agency to include a guidance clarity statement on certain agency guidance that is &quot;intended only to provide clarity to the public regarding existing requirements under the law or agency policies,&quot; the statement must be displayed prominently on the first page of the document and include the following: &quot;The contents of this document do not have the force and effect of law and do not, of themselves, bind the public or the agency; this document is intended only to provide clarity to the public regarding existing requirements under the law or agency policies.&quot; The Office of Management and Budget must issue guidance to implement this bill.
BILLS-117hres1075ih.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary of that version is repeated here.) Directs the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate to arrange for the presentation, on behalf of Congress, of a gold medal to commemorate Earth Day on April 28, 2022.
BILLS-117s4086is.txt Increasing Small Business Retirement Choices Act This bill amends the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) to allow the incidental expenses solely for the benefit of the participants and their beneficiaries to be included in a retirement plan's assets. These incidental expenses shall not be considered plan-related expenses in determining the amount of plan assets.
BILLS-117hres1076ih.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary of that version is repeated here.) Expresses the sense of Congress that the designation of May 2, 2022, through May 5, 2022, as National Small Business Week honors contributions of small businesses and entrepreneurs in every community in the United States. Expresses the sense of Congress that, whereas National Small Business Week has been declared by every President since 1963, National Small Business Week would be an appropriate week of May 2, through May 5, 2022, to celebrate the contributions of small businesses and entrepreneurs in every community in the United States. Designates the week of April 28, 2022, through May 5, 2022, as National Small Business Week.
BILLS-117hres1067ih.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary of that version is repeated here.) This bill expresses condolences and support for police officers and law enforcement officers in rural areas and across the United States who serve and protect their local communities, specifically the need to ensure that rural law enforcement departments have the proper equipment, training, and resources necessary to protect officers and individuals in the communities they serve. Additionally, the bill recognizes the importance of honoring and remembering fallen police and local law enforcement officers killed in the line of duty and expresses condolences to the loved ones of each officer who has made the ultimate sacrifice in the line of duty.
BILLS-117hconres87ih.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the House on April 17, 2017. H. Con. Res. 87 (Sec. 87) This bill directs the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate to arrange for the posthumous presentation, on behalf of Congress, of a gold medal in commemoration of the life and legacy of Ulysses S. Grant in commemoration of his 200th birthday.
BILLS-117s2372rs.txt Recovering America's Wildlife Act of 2021 This bill amends the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act to make supplemental funds available for management of fish and wildlife species of greatest conservation need as determined by state fish and wildlife agencies. The bill also requires the Department of the Treasury to transfer specified amounts from the general fund of the Treasury to the fund established by this bill for the management of natural resource or environmental-related revenues resulting from civil or criminal penalties or enforcement actions by federal agencies.
BILLS-117hres1068ih.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary of that version is repeated here.) Recognizes the significance of the 47th anniversary of Black April and the Fall of Saigon on April 30, 1975, honoring the contributions of Vietnamese Americans to the United States over the last 47 years and their tireless commitment to freedom, human rights, and democracy in Vietnam; and encourages all U.S. citizens to join in remembering such anniversary and the contributions of the Vietnamese-American community, honoring the contributions of such community and calling for freedom, human rights, and democracy in Vietnam.
BILLS-117hr496eh.txt Ukraine Religious Freedom Support Act This bill declares it is U.S policy to: (1) never recognize the illegal, attempted annexation of Crimea by the government of the Russia or the separation through the use of military force or recognition of independence of any portion of Ukrainian territory; and (2) consider any alien who, while serving as an official of the government of Russia, was responsible for or directly carried out particularly severe violations of religious freedom in Ukraine's sovereign territory that Russia illegally occupies, controls, or recognizes as independent, including through non-state armed groups and illegal entities it commands or otherwise supports or which act on Russia's behalf. The President shall consider any particularly severe violation of religious freedom in Ukraine that Russia illegally occupies, controls, or recognizes as independent, including through non-state armed groups and illegal entities it commands or otherwise supports or which act on Russia's behalf, during the period of time that is the basis for determining whether to designate Russia as a country of particular concern for religious freedom under the International Religious Freedom Act of 1998.
BILLS-117hr923eh.txt Georgia Support Act This bill states that it shall be U.S policy to: (1) support continued development of democratic values in the Republic of Georgia, including free and fair elections, an independent and accountable judiciary, public sector transparency and accountability, the rule of law, and anticorruption efforts; (2) support Georgia's sovereignty, independence, and territorial integrity; (3) support Georgia's capacity to protect its sovereignty and territorial integrity from further Russian aggression or encroachment on Georgian territory in light of Russia's full-scale invasion of Ukraine; (4) support the right of the people of Georgia to determine their future and make independent and sovereign choices on foreign and security policy, including their country's relationship with other nations and international organizations, without interference, intimidation, or coercion; (5) support Georgia's Euro-Atlantic and European integration; (6) not recognize territorial changes effected by force, including the Russian invasion and occupations of Georgian regions of Abkhazia and Tskvali Region/South Ossetia by the Russian Federation; (7) condemn ongoing detentions, kidnappings, and other human rights violations committed in the Georgian regions of Abkhazia and Tskvali Region/South Ossetia by Russian Federation; and (8) support peaceful conflict resolution in Georgia, including by urging Georgian armed forces to implement the European Union-
BILLS-117hr6023eh.txt Multinational Species Conservation Funds Semipostal Stamp Reauthorization Act of 2021 (Sec. 2) This bill amends the Multinational Species Conservation Funds Semipostal Stamp Act of 2010 to extend the authority of the U.S. Postal Service (USPS) to sell its Multinational Species Conservation Funds Semipostal Stamp until all remaining stamps are sold and for other purposes. This bill extends the authority of the USPS to sell its Multinational Species Conservation Funds Semipostal Stamp until all remaining stamps are sold and for other purposes. (Sec. 3) The budgetary effects of this bill, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled &quot;Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation&quot; for this bill, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee.
BILLS-117hres1066ih.txt Second Chance Month Act This bill amends the Second Chance Act of 2007 to designate April 2, 2022, as &quot;Second Chance Month.&quot; The bill expresses the sense of Congress that: every individual is with human dignity and value redemption and second chances; millions of citizens return to their communities from federal and state prisons every year; collateral consequences for an individual returning from a federal or state prison are often mandatory and take effect automatically, regardless of whether there is the seriousness of the crime and public safety; the time that has passed since the individual committed the crime; or the efforts of the individual to make amends or earn back the trust of the public; for individuals returning their communities from federal and state prisons, gaining meaningful employment is one of the most significant opportunities to reduce future reentry and has been shown to be one of the most significant predictors of successful reentry; collateral consequences prevent individuals with a criminal record from contributing fully to their families and communities; whereas the inability to find gainful employment and other collateral consequences of conviction inhibit the economic mobility of an individual with a criminal record, which can negatively impact the well-being of the children and families of the individual for generations; and Second Chance Month may contribute to increased public awareness about the impact of collateral consequences, and the need for
BILLS-117hres833eh.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was passed by the Senate on April 22, 2022. H. Res. 833 Resolved (Sec. 3) This bill directs the President to instruct the U.S. Executive Director at each international financial institution to use U.S. influence to oppose any loan, credit, or guarantee to the Republic of Moldova unless the President certifies that it is in the national security interests of the United States or is consistent with U.S. foreign policy interests, including: (1) the protection of internationally recognized sovereignty and territorial integrity of Moldova and its region; (2) demining efforts within Moldova; (3) support for the democratic development of Moldova and its region; and (4) participation in United Nations and other international peacekeeping missions as a partner in promoting global security. The bill urges the U.S. Executive Director at each international financial institution to use U.S influence to oppose any loan, credit, or guarantee to Moldova unless the President certifies that it is in the national security interests of the United States or is consistent with U.S. foreign policy interests, including: (1) the protection of internationally recognized sovereignty and territorial integrity of Moldova and its region; (2) demining efforts within Moldova; (3) support for the democratic development of Moldova and its region; and (4) participation
BILLS-117hres1073ih.txt House of Representatives Expresses support for the goals and ideals of National Child Abuse Prevention Month, which should include: (1) increasing the awareness of, and providing education for, the general public related to the prevention of childhood sexual abuse; (2) helping survivors heal; and (3) recognizing the need for additional resources and federal legislation for prevention, healing, and justice efforts related to childhood sexual abuse.
BILLS-117hr2793pcs.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the Senate on April 20, 2022. Highlands Conservation Reauthorization Act of 2022 (Sec. 2) This bill reauthorizes through FY2029 the Highlands Conservation Act, which provides funds to states, political subdivisions, and municipalities in the Highlands region (defined as including Pennsylvania and Connecticut) to carry out land conservation partnership projects. The bill redefines &quot;Highlands region&quot; to include: (1) a municipality approved by the Forest Service; and (2) a Highlands state as having high conservation value using the best available science and geographic information systems. The United States Fish and Wildlife Service (USFWS) may approve the inclusion of a municipality within a Highlands state as part of the region. The bill sets forth limitations on: (1) the amount that the Department of the Interior may expend in each fiscal year for the administration of the Act, and (2) the use of funds for land conservation partnership projects. A state that receives funds for a land conservation partnership project may not use more than 5% of the funds to administer the project. A Highlands state may petition Interior to consider an alternative appraisal methodology when there is a conflict between: (1) an appraisal methodology approved by Interior, and (2) applicable state law.
BILLS-117hres1072ih.txt . (Sec. 1) This bill has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary of that version is repeated here.) H. Res. 1072 (Sec. 1) This bill has not been amended since it was introduced. (Sec. 2) The bill expresses support for the designation of April 30, 2022, as National Adult Hepatitis B Vaccination Awareness Day.
BILLS-117hr7609ih.txt No federal funds may be used by the Department of Justice or any other federal agency to appeal the decision filed on April 18, 2022, in the U.S. District Court for the Middle District Florida determining that the mask mandate is unlawful.
BILLS-117hjres84ih.txt . (Sec. 3) This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on April 4, 2022. The summary of that version is repeated here.) (Sec. 4) This bill has not been amended since it was reported to the House on April 4, 2022.
BILLS-117hr7608ih.txt State Registries for Advance Directives Act of 2022 This bill authorizes the Department of Health and Human Services to award grants to states for developing, improving, or maintaining a state registry of advance directives.
BILLS-117s2322rs.txt Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism Pilot Program Act of 2021 or the CTPAT Pilot Program Act of 2021 This bill directs the Department of Homeland Security (DHS) to issue a final rule to carry out a pilot program to assess whether allowing certain non-asset-based third-party logistics providers to participate in the Customs-Trade Partnership Against Terrorism would enhance port security, combat terrorism, prevent supply chain security breaches, or otherwise meet the goals of the partnership. The bill requires DHS to: (1) ensure that not more than 10 such entities participate in the program, (2) provide for their participation on a voluntary basis, (3) continue the program for at least one year after the final rule is issued and terminated five years after the date of enactment of this bill, and (4) report to Congress on program findings and recommendations.
BILLS-117s1941rs.txt Metropolitan Areas Protection and Standardization Act of 2021 or the MAPS Act of 2021 This bill requires the Office of Management and Budget (OMB) to standardize the use of core-based statistical areas across federal programs. Specifically, OMB must: require the complete reporting of the use of core-based statistical areas designations to be standardized; allow for public comment on any proposed change to such designations; and report on the scientific basis and estimated impact to federal programs for any proposed change to such designations.
BILLS-117s4088pcs.txt Protecting Americans from Unnecessary Spread upon Entry from COVID-19 Act of 2022 or the PAUSE Act of 2022 This bill prohibits the Department of Health and Human Services from removing or lessening the stringency of COVID-19 border health provisions unless: the public health emergency declared for COVID-19 is no longer in effect, the public health emergencies declared for COVID-19 by all states are no longer in effect, and the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention reduces the travelers' health risk level for introducing, transmitting, and spreading COVID-19 in or from Canada and Mexico to Level 1. The Department of Homeland Security may not cease or lessen the implementation of such provisions unless and until each of the conditions listed in this bill is met.
BILLS-117hr5973eh.txt Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Reauthorization Act of 2022 This bill reauthorizes the Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Restoration Act of 1990 through FY2023. The bill renames: (1) the Lower Great Lakes Fishery Resources Office as the Lower Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Conservation Office, and (2) the Upper Great Lakes Fishery Resources Office as the Upper Great Lakes Fish and Wildlife Conservation Office.
BILLS-117hr5796eh.txt Patents for Humanity Act of 2021 This bill establishes a biennial competition to award certificates that can be redeemed to accelerate certain matters at the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO). The certificate may be used for: an ex parte reexamination proceeding; an application for a patent; an appeal to the Patent Trial and Appeal Board of a claim twice rejected in a patent application or reissue application or finally rejected in an ex parte reexamination, without accelerating the underlying matter which generated the appeal; and an appeal to the Board of a claim twice rejected in a patent application or reissue application or finally rejected in an ex parte reexamination, without accelerating the underlying matter which generated the appeal. The Patents for Humanity Program shall be treated as a successor to the Patents for Humanity Program.
BILLS-117s3059enr.txt Courthouse Ethics and Transparency Act This bill amends the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 to require each judicial officer, each bankruptcy judge, and each U.S. magistrate judge to file quarterly or annual financial disclosure reports. The Administrative Office of the United States Courts must establish and make publicly available a searchable internet database to enable the public to access financial disclosure reports of federal judicial officers.
BILLS-117hres1070ih.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was introduced. The summary of that version is repeated here.) Expresses the profound sorrow of the House of Representatives on the death of Texas Army National Guard Specialist Bishop E. Evans. (Sec. 1070) Expresses the profound sorrow of the House of Representatives on the death of Texas Army National Guard Specialist Bishop E. Evans. (Sec. 117) Recognizes that, following an extensive search, Specialist Bishop E. Evans was discovered deceased, deceased along the Rio Grande, near Eagle Pass, Texas; (2) the House honors the life and service of the deceased; (3) communicates these resolutions to the Senate and transmit a copy thereof to the family of the deceased; (4) adjourns the House as a further mark of respect to the memory of the deceased; and (5) adjourns as a further mark of respect to the memory of the deceased.
BILLS-117hres1071ih.txt Declares that the House of Representatives: (1) thanks the teachers of the United States; and (2) promotes the profession of teaching and the contributions of educators during this time of crisis by encouraging students, parents, school administrators, and public officials to recognize National Teacher Appreciation Week from May 2, 2022, through May 6, 2022.
armed_forces_sec3.txt Directs the President to report to Congress at least once every 60 days on matters relevant to the joint resolution concerning the situation in Ukraine, including actions taken pursuant to the exercise of authority granted in this Act, the status of planning for efforts that are expected to be required after such actions are completed, and the date on which the President certifies to Congress that the territorial integrity of Ukraine has been restored. Terminates such authority when the President certifies to Congress that the territorial integrity of Ukraine has been restored.
BILLS-117hres1074ih.txt (This measure has not been amended since it was reported to the House on April 14, 2022. (Sec. 1) This bill has not been amended since it was introduced in the House on April 14, 2017. (Sec. 2) This bill has not been amended since it was introduced in the House on April 14, 2017. (Sec. 3) The bill expresses the sense of Congress that: (1) the Weather Channel should be commended for its 40 years of helping save lives by reaching millions of viewers and preparing Americans for severe weather events; (2) it has consistently ranked among America's most loved and trusted news brands; (3) in April 2022, the Weather Channel launched a direct-to-consumer TV app that delivered an enhanced viewing experience and made its programming more accessible; and (4) in 2021, the Weather Channel should recognize its 40th anniversary, its unique history among news networks and broadcasters, and its contributions to innovative and educational weather reporting.
BILLS-117hr7607ih.txt Helping Applicants Receive Valid and Reasonable Decisions Act or the HARVARD Act This bill amends the Higher Education Act of 1965 to require an institution of higher education that considers an applicant's personality traits in making admission determinations to make available on its public website and application materials: a statement informing the applicant of his or her use of personality traits in making admission determinations; the rationale for using such traits; a description of the process under which personality traits are considered; the standards and criteria used for rating personality traits; and the standards and criteria used for rating personality traits.
BILLS-117hr6651eh.txt Alaska Salmon Research Task Force Act This bill requires the Department of Commerce to convene an Alaska Salmon Research Task Force to: (1) review existing Pacific salmon research; (2) identify applied research needed to better understand the increased variability and declining salmon returns in some regions of Alaska; and (3) support sustainable management of salmon in Alaska. The task force must conduct a review of Pacific salmon science relevant to understanding and managing salmon returns in Alaska.
BILLS-117hjres82ih.txt Procedures for Credible Fear Screening and Consideration of Asylum, Withholding of Removal, and CAT Protection Claims by Asylum Officers Act of 2017 This bill directs the Department of Justice and the Department of Homeland Security to submit to Congress a rule regarding procedures foredible fear screening and consideration of asylum, withholding of removal, and CAT protection claims by asylum officers.
BILLS-117hjres83ih.txt Authorization for Use of Military Force to defend America's Allies Resolution of 2022 This bill authorizes the President, upon making a determination that the Russian Federation has used chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons in the territory of Ukraine, to use the Armed Forces to: (1) protect U.S. national security interests with respect to Ukraine; and (2) assist in defending and restoring Ukraine's territorial integrity. The bill terminates when the President certifies to Congress that Ukraine's territorial integrity has been restored.
BILLS-117hr3525eh.txt Commission To Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of Asian Pacific American History and Culture Act This bill establishes a commission to study the potential for establishing and maintaining a National Museum of Asian Pacific American History and Culture in Washington, DC. The commission shall report to the President and Congress on: its recommendations for a plan of action regarding the feasibility of establishing and maintaining the museum; the availability and cost of the collections to be acquired and housed; the impact of the museum on existing Asian Pacific American history-related museums; criteria for evaluating possible locations; the feasibility of the museum becoming part of the Smithsonian Institution; the governance and organizational structure of the museum; best practices for engaging Asian Pacific Americans in the museum's development and design; and the cost of constructing, operating, and maintaining the museum. The commission shall: (1) develop a fund-raising plan to support the museum through public contributions, and (2) obtain an independent review of the plan's viability.
BILLS-117hr5796rh.txt Patents for Humanity Act of 2021 This bill amends federal patent law to establish a biennial competition to award certificates that can be redeemed to accelerate certain matters at the United States Patent and Trademark Office (USPTO), including: an ex parte reexamination proceeding, including one appeal to the Patent Trial and Appeal Board from that proceeding; an application for a patent, including one appeal to the Board from that application; an appeal to the Board of a claim twice rejected in a patent application or reissue application or finally rejected in an ex parte reexamination, without accelerating the underlying matter which generated the appeal; and a matter identified in this bill. The Patent and Trademark Office shall promote the competition through satellite offices established pursuant to this bill.
BILLS-117hr7606ih.txt Meat and Poultry Special Investigator Act of 2022 This bill amends the Department of Agriculture Reorganization Act of 1994 to establish within the Department of Agriculture (USDA) the Office of the Special Investigator for Competition Matters, which shall: use all available tools, including subpoenas, to investigate and prosecute violations of the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 by packers and live poultry dealers with respect to competition and trade practices in the food and agricultural sector; serve as a USDA liaison to, and act in consultation with, the Department of Justice and the Federal Trade Commission regarding competition and trade practices in the food and agricultural sector; act in consultation with the Department of Homeland Security regarding national security and critical infrastructure security in the food and agricultural sector; and maintain a staff of attorneys and other professionals with appropriate expertise. The bill grants the Special Investigator authority to bring any civil or administrative action authorized under the Packers and Stockyards Act, 1921 against a packer.
