SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This joint resolution may be cited as the ``Authorization for Use 
of Military Force to defend America's Allies Resolution of 2022''.

SEC. 2. AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF UNITED STATES ARMED FORCES.

    (a) Authorization.--Upon making a determination that the Russian 
Federation has used chemical, biological, or nuclear weapons in the 
territory of Ukraine, the President is authorized to use the Armed 
Forces of the United States as the President determines to be necessary 
and appropriate in order to--
            (1) protect the national security interests of the United 
        States with respect to Ukraine; and
            (2) assist in defending and restoring the territorial 
        integrity of Ukraine.
    (b) Presidential Determination.--In connection with the exercise of 
the authority granted in subsection (a) to use force the President 
shall, prior to such exercise or as soon thereafter as may be feasible, 
but no later than 48 hours after exercising such authority, make 
available to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the 
President pro tempore of the Senate the President's determination that 
reliance by the United States on further diplomatic or other peaceful 
means alone either--
            (1) will not adequately protect the national security 
        interests of the United States with respect to Ukraine; or
            (2) is not likely to defend and restore the territorial 
        integrity of Ukraine.
    (c) War Powers Resolution Requirements.--
            (1) Specific statutory authorization.--Consistent with 
        section 8(a)(1) of the War Powers Resolution, the Congress 
        declares that this section is intended to constitute specific 
        statutory authorization within the meaning of section 5(b) of 
        the War Powers Resolution.
            (2) Applicability of other requirements.--Nothing in this 
        joint resolution supersedes any requirement of the War Powers 
        Resolution.

