
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 923 Engrossed in House (EH)]


  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                H. R. 923

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT


 
To support the independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of 
            the Republic of Georgia, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE AND TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    (a) Short Title.--This Act may be cited as the ``Georgia Support 
Act''.
    (b) Table of Contents.--The table of contents for this Act is as 
follows:

Sec. 1. Short title and table of contents.
Sec. 2. United States policy.
                     TITLE I--ASSISTANCE PROVISIONS

Sec. 101. United States-Georgia security assistance.
Sec. 102. Report on United States democracy and governance assistance 
                            to Georgia.
Sec. 103. United States cybersecurity cooperation with Georgia.
Sec. 104. Enhanced assistance to combat Russian disinformation and 
                            propaganda.
                     TITLE II--SANCTIONS PROVISIONS

Sec. 201. Imposition of sanctions on persons complicit in or 
                            responsible for serious human rights 
                            abuses, including right to life in Georgian 
                            regions of Abkhazia and Tskhinvali Region/
                            South Ossetia occupied by Russia.
             TITLE III--DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS

Sec. 301. Determination of budgetary effects.

SEC. 2. UNITED STATES POLICY.

    It is the policy of the United States to--
            (1) support continued development of democratic values in 
        the Republic of Georgia, including free and fair elections, an 
        independent and accountable judiciary, public sector 
        transparency and accountability, the rule of law, and 
        anticorruption efforts;
            (2) support Georgia's sovereignty, independence, and 
        territorial integrity within its internationally recognized 
        borders;
            (3) support Georgia's capacity to protect its sovereignty 
        and territorial integrity from further Russian aggression or 
        encroachment on Georgian territory in light of Russia's full-
        scale invasion of Ukraine;
            (4) support the right of the people of Georgia to freely 
        determine their future and make independent and sovereign 
        choices on foreign and security policy, including regarding 
        their country's relationship with other nations and 
        international organizations, without interference, 
        intimidation, or coercion by other countries;
            (5) support Georgia's Euro-Atlantic and European 
        integration;
            (6) not recognize territorial changes effected by force, 
        including the illegal invasions and occupations of Georgian 
        regions of Abkhazia and Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia by the 
        Russian Federation;
            (7) condemn ongoing detentions, kidnappings, and other 
        human rights violations committed in the Georgian regions of 
        Abkhazia and Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia forcibly occupied 
        by the Russian Federation, including the recent killings of 
        Georgian citizens Archil Tatunashvili, Giga Otkhozoria, Davit 
        Basharuli, and others in the Georgian regions of Abkhazia and 
        Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia; and
            (8) support peaceful conflict resolution in Georgia, 
        including by urging the Russian Federation to fully implement 
        the European Union-mediated ceasefire agreement of August 12, 
        2008, and supporting the establishment of international 
        security mechanisms in the Georgian regions of Abkhazia and 
        Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia and the safe and dignified 
        return of internally displaced persons (IDPs) and refugees, all 
        of which are important for lasting peace and security on the 
        ground.

                     TITLE I--ASSISTANCE PROVISIONS

SEC. 101. UNITED STATES-GEORGIA SECURITY ASSISTANCE.

    (a) Findings.--Congress finds the following:
            (1) In fiscal year 2021, the United States provided Georgia 
        with $2,200,000 in assistance under chapter 5 of part II of the 
        Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 (22 U.S.C. 2347 et seq.; 
        relating to international military education and training) and 
        $35,000,000 in assistance under section 23 of the Arms Export 
        Control Act (22 U.S.C. 2763; relating to the Foreign Military 
        Financing Program) and in 2021 announced the Georgia Defense 
        and Deterrence Enhancement Initiative (GDDEI) to enable further 
        modernization of the Georgian Ministry of Defense and the 
        Georgian Defense Forces.
            (2) Georgia has been a longstanding NATO-aspirant country.
            (3) Georgia has contributed substantially to Euro-Atlantic 
        peace and security through participation in the International 
        Security Assistance Force (ISAF) and Resolute Support Missions 
        in Afghanistan as one of the largest troop contributors.
    (b) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that United 
States assistance to the Republic of Georgia under chapter 5 of part II 
of the Foreign Assistance Act of 1961 and section 23 of the Arms Export 
Control Act should be increased.
    (c) Statement of Policy.--It shall be the policy of the United 
States, in consultation with the Republic of Georgia, to enhance 
Georgia's deterrence, resilience, and self-defense, including through 
appropriate assistance to improve the capabilities of Georgia's armed 
forces.
    (d) Review of Security Assistance to Georgia.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in 
        consultation with the heads of other appropriate United States 
        departments and agencies, shall submit to the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report reviewing 
        United States security assistance to the Republic of Georgia.
            (2) Components.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) An assessment of needed security assistance to 
                improve Georgia's capacity to defend its sovereignty 
                and territorial integrity from further invasion of 
                Georgian territory by Russian forces, including an 
                assessment of need for anti-armor, anti-air, and anti-
                tank weapons, as well as intelligence, surveillance, 
                and reconnaissance capabilities.
                    (B) A detailed review of all United States security 
                assistance to Georgia from fiscal year 2008 to the date 
                of the submission of such report.
                    (C) An assessment of threats to Georgian 
                independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity, 
                including an assessment of changes to the force posture 
                or intent of Russian forces occupying Georgian 
                territory.
                    (D) An assessment of Georgia's capabilities to 
                defend itself, including a five-year strategy to 
                enhance Georgia's deterrence, resilience, and self-
                defense capabilities that incorporates plans to address 
                the capability gaps subject to the assessment described 
                in subparagraph (A).
            (3) Form.--The report required under paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified 
        annex.

SEC. 102. REPORT ON UNITED STATES DEMOCRACY AND GOVERNANCE ASSISTANCE 
              TO GEORGIA.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 180 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the 
heads of other appropriate Federal departments and agencies as 
appropriate, shall submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the 
House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
Senate a report on United States democracy and governance assistance to 
the Republic of Georgia.
    (b) Components.--The report required by subsection (a) shall 
include the following:
            (1) A description of goals for United States democracy and 
        governance assistance to Georgia and its democratic 
        institutions, including how such assistance is supporting 
        Georgia's stated goals for European integration.
            (2) An assessment of the impact of United States democracy 
        and governance assistance to Georgia since fiscal year 2008, 
        including challenges to achieving the goals described in 
        paragraph (1).
            (3) An assessment of Georgia's progress relating to freedom 
        of the press and support for independent media, including steps 
        to hold accountable those responsible for attacks on 
        independent media and on LGBTQ rights activists on July 5, 
        2021, in Tbilisi.
            (4) An assessment of Georgia's progress on strengthening 
        its democratic institutions, including through electoral and 
        judicial reforms necessary to build public confidence.
            (5) A description of barriers and challenges to United 
        States investment in the Georgian economy, as well as an 
        assessment of how support from the United States International 
        Development Finance Corporation in Georgia could help create a 
        better developed and more transparent investment climate.
    (c) Form.--The report required by subsection (a) shall be submitted 
in unclassified form but may contain a classified annex.

SEC. 103. UNITED STATES CYBERSECURITY COOPERATION WITH GEORGIA.

    (a) Sense of Congress.--It is the sense of Congress that the 
Secretary of State should take the following actions, commensurate with 
United States interests, to assist the Repubic of Georgia to improve 
its cybersecurity:
            (1) Provide Georgia such support as may be necessary to 
        secure government computer networks from malicious cyber 
        intrusions, particularly such networks that defend the critical 
        infrastructure of Georgia.
            (2) Provide Georgia support in reducing reliance on Russian 
        information and communications technology.
            (3) Assist Georgia to build its capacity, expand 
        cybersecurity information sharing, and cooperate on 
        international cyberspace efforts.
    (b) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit 
        to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
        Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the 
        Senate a report on United States cybersecurity cooperation with 
        the Republic of Georgia.
            (2) Matters to be included.--The report required by 
        paragraph (1) shall include information relating to the 
        following:
                    (A) United States efforts to strengthen Georgia's 
                ability to prevent, mitigate, and respond to cyber 
                incidents, including through training, education, 
                technical assistance, capacity building, and 
                cybersecurity risk management strategies.
                    (B) The potential for new areas of collaboration 
                and mutual assistance between the United States and 
                Georgia to address shared cyber challenges, including 
                cybercrime, critical infrastructure protection, and 
                resilience against automated, distributed threats.
                    (C) NATO's efforts to help Georgia develop 
                technical capabilities to counter cyber threats.

SEC. 104. ENHANCED ASSISTANCE TO COMBAT RUSSIAN DISINFORMATION AND 
              PROPAGANDA.

    (a) Statement of Policy.--It shall be the policy of the United 
States to enhance the capabilities of the Republic of Georgia to combat 
Russian disinformation and propaganda campaigns intended to undermine 
the sovereignty and democratic institutions of Georgia, while promoting 
the freedom of the press.
    (b) Required Strategy.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 180 days after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in 
        consultation with the heads of other appropriate United States 
        departments and agencies, shall submit to the Committee on 
        Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the 
        Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report outlining 
        a strategy to implement the policy described in subsection (a).
            (2) Components.--The report required under paragraph (1) 
        shall include the following:
                    (A) A detailed assessment of Russian disinformation 
                and propaganda efforts across all media platforms 
                targeting the Republic of Georgia.
                    (B) An assessment of Georgia's capabilities to 
                deter and combat such Russian efforts and to support 
                the freedom of the press.
                    (C) A detailed strategy coordinated across all 
                relevant United States departments and agencies to 
                enhance Georgia's capabilities to deter and combat such 
                Russian efforts.
            (3) Form.--The report required by paragraph (1) shall be 
        submitted in unclassified form but may contain a classified 
        annex.

                     TITLE II--SANCTIONS PROVISIONS

SEC. 201. IMPOSITION OF SANCTIONS ON PERSONS COMPLICIT IN OR 
              RESPONSIBLE FOR SERIOUS HUMAN RIGHTS ABUSES, INCLUDING 
              RIGHT TO LIFE IN GEORGIAN REGIONS OF ABKHAZIA AND 
              TSKHINVALI REGION/SOUTH OSSETIA OCCUPIED BY RUSSIA.

    (a) In General.--The President shall impose on a foreign person the 
sanctions described in subsection (b) if the President determines that 
such foreign person, on or after the date of the enactment of this 
Act--
            (1) is responsible for, complicit in, or responsible for 
        ordering, controlling, or otherwise directing the commission of 
        serious human rights abuses in the Georgian regions of Abkhazia 
        and Tskhinvali Region/South Ossetia forcibly occupied by the 
        Russian Federation;
            (2) is materially assisting, sponsoring, or providing 
        significant financial, material, or technological support for, 
        or goods or services to, a foreign person described in 
        paragraph (1); or
            (3) is owned or controlled by a foreign person, or is 
        acting on behalf of a foreign person, described in paragraph 
        (1).
    (b) Sanctions Described.--The sanctions described in this 
subsection are the following:
            (1) Asset blocking.--The exercise of all powers granted to 
        the President by the International Emergency Economic Powers 
        Act (50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq.) to the extent necessary to block 
        and prohibit all transactions in all property and interests in 
        property of a person determined by the President to be a person 
        described in subsection (a) if such property and interests in 
        property are in the United States, come within the United 
        States, or are or come within the possession or control of a 
        United States person, including by taking any of the actions 
        described in paragraph (1) of section 203(a) of such Act (50 
        U.S.C. 1702(a)).
            (2) Inadmissibility of certain individuals.--
                    (A) Ineligibility for visas and admission to the 
                united states.--A person determined by the President to 
                be a person described in subsection (a) is--
                            (i) inadmissible to the United States;
                            (ii) ineligible to receive a visa or other 
                        documentation to enter the United States; and
                            (iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted 
                        or paroled into the United States or to receive 
                        any other benefit under the Immigration and 
                        Nationality Act (8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq.).
                    (B) Current visas revoked.--A person determined by 
                the President to be a person described in subsection 
                (a) is subject to the following:
                            (i) Revocation of any visa or other entry 
                        documentation regardless of when the visa or 
                        other entry documentation is or was issued.
                            (ii) A revocation under clause (i) shall--
                                    (I) take effect immediately; and
                                    (II) automatically cancel any other 
                                valid visa or entry documentation that 
                                is in the foreign person's possession.
                    (C) Exception to comply with united nations 
                headquarters agreement and law enforcement 
                objectives.--Sanctions under subparagraph (A) shall not 
                apply to an individual if admitting such individual 
                into the United States would further important law 
                enforcement objectives or is necessary to permit the 
                United States to comply with the Agreement regarding 
                the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake 
                Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 
                21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United 
                States, or other applicable international obligations 
                of the United States.
    (c) Waiver.--The President may waive the application of sanctions 
under subsection (b) with respect to a person if the President 
determines that such a waiver is important to the national interests of 
the United States.
    (d) Implementation; Penalties.--
            (1) Implementation.--The President may exercise all 
        authorities provided to the President under sections 203 and 
        205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 
        U.S.C. 1702 and 1704) to carry out subsection (b)(1).
            (2) Penalties.--A person that violates, attempts to 
        violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of 
        subsection (b)(1) or any regulation, license, or order issued 
        to carry out such subsection shall be subject to the penalties 
        specified in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the 
        International Emergency Economic Powers Act (50 U.S.C. 1705) to 
        the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act 
        described in subsection (a) of such section.
    (e) Report Required.--Not later than 60 days after the date of the 
enactment of this Act and at least once every 180 days thereafter for a 
period not to exceed two years, the President, in consultation with the 
Secretary of the Treasury, shall transmit to Congress a detailed report 
with respect to persons that have been determined to have engaged in 
activities described in subsection (a).
    (f) Exception Relating to Importation of Goods.--
            (1) In general.--The authorities and requirements to impose 
        sanctions under this title shall not include the authority or 
        requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.
            (2) Good defined.--In this subsection, the term ``good'' 
        means any article, natural or man-made substance, material, 
        supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test 
        equipment and excluding technical data.

             TITLE III--DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS

SEC. 301. DETERMINATION OF BUDGETARY EFFECTS.

    The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying 
with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by 
reference to the latest statement titled ``Budgetary Effects of PAYGO 
Legislation'' for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional 
Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that 
such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

            Passed the House of Representatives April 27, 2022.

            Attest:

                                                                 Clerk.
117th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H. R. 923

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 AN ACT

To support the independence, sovereignty, and territorial integrity of 
            the Republic of Georgia, and for other purposes.
