
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 4064 Introduced in Senate (IS)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 4064

  To facilitate the development of a whole-of-government strategy for 
                nuclear cooperation and nuclear exports.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 7, 2022

Mr. Manchin (for himself and Mr. Risch) introduced the following bill; 
which was read twice and referred to the Committee on Foreign Relations

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To facilitate the development of a whole-of-government strategy for 
                nuclear cooperation and nuclear exports.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``International Nuclear Energy Act of 
2022''.

SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Advanced nuclear reactor.--The term ``advanced nuclear 
        reactor'' has the meaning given the term in section 951(b) of 
        the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16271(b)).
            (2) Ally or partner nation.--The term ``ally or partner 
        nation'' means the Government of each of the following:
                    (A) A country that is a member of the North 
                Atlantic Treaty Organization.
                    (B) Japan.
                    (C) The Republic of Korea.
                    (D) Australia.
                    (E) Switzerland.
                    (F) Sweden.
                    (G) Finland.
                    (H) Any other country designated as an ally or 
                partner nation by the Secretary of State for purposes 
                of this Act.
            (3) Assistant.--The term ``Assistant'' means the Assistant 
        to the President and Director for Nuclear Energy Policy 
        described in section 3(a)(3)(A).
            (4) Associated entity.--The term ``associated entity'' 
        means an entity that--
                    (A) is owned, controlled, or dominated by--
                            (i) an ally or partner nation; or
                            (ii) an associated individual; or
                    (B) is organized under the laws of, or otherwise 
                subject to the jurisdiction of, a country described in 
                any of subparagraphs (A) through (H) of paragraph (2), 
                including a corporation that is incorporated in a 
                country described in any of those subparagraphs.
            (5) Associated individual.--The term ``associated 
        individual'' means an alien who is a national of a country 
        described in any of subparagraphs (A) through (H) of paragraph 
        (2).
            (6) Center.--The term ``Center'' means the Advanced Reactor 
        Coordination and Resource Center established under section 11.
            (7) Embarking civil nuclear energy nation.--The term 
        ``embarking civil nuclear energy nation'' means a country 
        that--
                    (A) does not have a civil nuclear program;
                    (B) is in the process of developing or expanding a 
                civil nuclear program, including safeguards and a legal 
                and regulatory framework, for--
                            (i) nuclear safety;
                            (ii) nuclear security;
                            (iii) radioactive waste management;
                            (iv) civil nuclear energy;
                            (v) nuclear liability; or
                            (vi) advanced nuclear reactor licensing; or
                    (C) is in the process of selecting, developing, 
                constructing, or utilizing advanced light water 
                reactors, advanced nuclear reactors, or advanced 
                nuclear technologies.
            (8) High-assay low-enriched uranium.--The term ``high-assay 
        low-enriched uranium'' has the meaning given the term in 
        section 2001(d) of the Energy Act of 2020 (42 U.S.C. 16281(d)).
            (9) Low-enriched uranium.--The term ``low-enriched 
        uranium'' means each of--
                    (A) low-enriched uranium (as defined in section 
                3102 of the USEC Privatization Act (42 U.S.C. 2297h)); 
                and
                    (B) low-enriched uranium (as defined in section 
                3112A(a) of that Act (42 U.S.C. 2297h-10a(a))).
            (10) National strategic uranium reserve.--The term 
        ``National Strategic Uranium Reserve'' means the National 
        Strategic Uranium Reserve established under section 
        16(e)(1)(A).
            (11) Nuclear safety.--The term ``nuclear safety'' means 
        issues relating to--
                    (A) the safe operation of nuclear reactors and 
                other nuclear facilities;
                    (B) radiological protection of--
                            (i) members of the public;
                            (ii) workers; and
                            (iii) the environment;
                    (C) nuclear waste management;
                    (D) emergency preparedness;
                    (E) nuclear liability; and
                    (F) the safe transportation of nuclear materials.
            (12) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of Energy.
            (13) Spent nuclear fuel.--The term ``spent nuclear fuel'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the Nuclear 
        Waste Policy Act of 1982 (42 U.S.C. 10101).
            (14) Team usa.--The term ``Team USA'' means the interagency 
        initiative to identify opportunities in emerging economies, 
        embarking civil nuclear energy nations, and ally or partner 
        nations for topics such as--
                    (A) nuclear plant construction;
                    (B) nuclear fuel services;
                    (C) nuclear energy financing;
                    (D) nuclear plant operations;
                    (E) nuclear plant regulation;
                    (F) nuclear medicine;
                    (G) infrastructure support for nuclear energy;
                    (H) nuclear plant decommissioning;
                    (I) nuclear liability;
                    (J) storage and disposal of spent nuclear fuel; and
                    (K) technology related to the matters described in 
                subparagraphs (A) through (J).
            (15) U.S. nuclear energy company.--The term ``U.S. nuclear 
        energy company'' means a company that--
                    (A) is organized under the laws of, or otherwise 
                subject to the jurisdiction of, the United States; and
                    (B) is involved in the nuclear energy industry.

SEC. 3. CIVIL NUCLEAR COORDINATION AND STRATEGY.

    (a) Office of the Assistant to the President and Director for 
Nuclear Energy Policy.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established in the Executive 
        Office of the President an office, to be known as the ``Office 
        of the Assistant to the President and Director for Nuclear 
        Energy Policy'' (referred to in this subsection as the 
        ``Office'').
            (2) Mission.--The Office shall act as the single 
        coordinating office for--
                    (A) civil nuclear cooperation; and
                    (B) civil nuclear export strategy.
            (3) Leadership.--
                    (A) Assistant.--
                            (i) In general.--The Office shall be headed 
                        by the Assistant to the President and Director 
                        for Nuclear Energy Policy, who shall be 
                        appointed by the President.
                            (ii) Reporting.--The Assistant shall report 
                        directly to the President.
                    (B) Deputy assistant.--
                            (i) In general.--The Assistant shall 
                        appoint a Deputy Assistant with experience in 
                        advising on civil nuclear project development 
                        and financing.
                            (ii) Reporting.--The Deputy Assistant shall 
                        report directly to the Assistant.
            (4) Duties.--
                    (A) In general.--The Assistant, in consultation 
                with the Deputy Assistant, shall--
                            (i) coordinate the civil nuclear export 
                        policy of the United States;
                            (ii) develop a cohesive Federal strategy 
                        for engagement with foreign governments 
                        (including ally or partner nations and the 
                        governments of embarking civil nuclear energy 
                        nations), associated entities, associated 
                        individuals, and international lending 
                        institutions with respect to civil nuclear 
                        exports;
                            (iii) coordinate with the officials 
                        described in subparagraph (B) to ensure that 
                        necessary framework agreements and trade 
                        controls relating to civil nuclear materials 
                        and technologies are in place for key markets; 
                        and
                            (iv) develop--
                                    (I) a whole-of-government 
                                coordinating strategy for civil nuclear 
                                cooperation;
                                    (II) a whole-of-government strategy 
                                for civil nuclear exports; and
                                    (III) a whole-of-government 
                                approach to support foreign investment 
                                in domestic construction projects.
                    (B) Officials described.--The officials referred to 
                in subparagraph (A)(iii) are--
                            (i) the appropriate officials of--
                                    (I) the Department of State;
                                    (II) the Department of Energy;
                                    (III) the Department of Commerce;
                                    (IV) the Nuclear Regulatory 
                                Commission;
                                    (V) the Department of Defense;
                                    (VI) the National Security Council;
                                    (VII) the National Economic 
                                Council;
                                    (VIII) the Office of the United 
                                States Trade Representative;
                                    (IX) the Office of Management and 
                                Budget;
                                    (X) the Office of the Director of 
                                National Intelligence;
                                    (XI) the Export-Import Bank of the 
                                United States;
                                    (XII) the United States 
                                International Development Finance 
                                Corporation;
                                    (XIII) the United States Trade and 
                                Development Agency; and
                                    (XIV) the Office of Science and 
                                Technology Policy; and
                            (ii) appropriate officials representing 
                        foreign countries and governments, including--
                                    (I) ally or partner nations;
                                    (II) embarking civil nuclear energy 
                                nations; and
                                    (III) any other country or 
                                government that the Assistant, in 
                                consultation with the Deputy Assistant 
                                and the officials described in clause 
                                (i), determines to be appropriate.
            (5) Staff.--
                    (A) Senior advisors.--
                            (i) In general.--The Assistant shall select 
                        a staff of not fewer than 4, and not more than 
                        6, Senior Advisors to assist in the mission of 
                        the Office.
                            (ii) Requirement.--The Senior Advisors 
                        selected under clause (i) shall be composed of 
                        individuals with diverse industry and 
                        government backgrounds, including individuals 
                        with backgrounds in--
                                    (I) project financing;
                                    (II) construction development and 
                                management;
                                    (III) contract structuring, risk 
                                allocation, and nuclear liability;
                                    (IV) regulatory, licensing, and 
                                safeguards processes;
                                    (V) civil nuclear electric and 
                                nonelectric applications of nuclear 
                                technologies;
                                    (VI) government-to-government 
                                negotiations;
                                    (VII) social acceptance and 
                                environmental justice;
                                    (VIII) human infrastructure 
                                development;
                                    (IX) major project development;
                                    (X) international infrastructure 
                                financing; and
                                    (XI) nuclear safety and security 
                                requirements.
                    (B) Other staff.--The Assistant may hire such other 
                additional personnel as may be necessary to carry out 
                the mission of the Office.
            (6) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $2,000,000 for 
        each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.
    (b) Nuclear Exports Working Group.--
            (1) Establishment.--There is established a working group, 
        to be known as the ``Nuclear Exports Working Group'' (referred 
        to in this subsection as the ``working group'').
            (2) Composition.--The working group shall be composed of--
                    (A) senior-level Federal officials, selected 
                internally by the applicable Federal agency or 
                organization, from--
                            (i) the Department of State;
                            (ii) the Department of Commerce;
                            (iii) the Department of Energy;
                            (iv) the Department of the Treasury;
                            (v) the Export-Import Bank of the United 
                        States;
                            (vi) the United States International 
                        Development Finance Corporation;
                            (vii) the Nuclear Regulatory Commission;
                            (viii) the Office of the United States 
                        Trade Representative; and
                            (ix) the United States Trade and 
                        Development Agency;
                    (B) other senior-level Federal officials, selected 
                internally by the applicable Federal agency or 
                organization, from any other Federal agency or 
                organization that the Secretary determines to be 
                appropriate; and
                    (C) any senior-level Federal official selected by 
                the Assistant from any Federal agency or organization.
            (3) Reporting.--The working group shall report to the 
        Assistant.
            (4) Duties.--The working group shall--
                    (A) provide direction and advice to the Assistant; 
                and
                    (B) submit to the Civil Nuclear Trade Advisory 
                Committee of the Department of Commerce and the Nuclear 
                Energy Advisory Committee of the Department of Energy 
                quarterly reports on the standing of civil nuclear 
                exports from the United States, including with respect 
                to meeting the targets established as part of the 5-
                year civil nuclear trade strategy described in 
                paragraph (5)(A).
            (5) Strategy.--
                    (A) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the 
                date of enactment of this Act, the working group shall 
                establish a 10-year civil nuclear trade strategy, 
                including biennial targets for the export of civil 
                nuclear technologies, including light water and non-
                light water reactors and associated equipment and 
                technologies, civil nuclear materials, and nuclear fuel 
                that align with meeting international energy demand 
                while seeking to avoid or reduce emissions.
                    (B) Collaboration required.--In establishing the 
                strategy under subparagraph (A), the working group 
                shall collaborate with--
                            (i) the Secretary;
                            (ii) the Secretary of Commerce;
                            (iii) the Secretary of State;
                            (iv) the Secretary of the Treasury;
                            (v) the Nuclear Regulatory Commission;
                            (vi) the President of the Export-Import 
                        Bank of the United States;
                            (vii) the Chief Executive Officer of the 
                        United States International Development Finance 
                        Corporation;
                            (viii) the United States Trade 
                        Representative; and
                            (ix) representatives of private industry.

SEC. 4. ENGAGEMENT WITH ALLY OR PARTNER NATIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of State, in coordination with the 
Secretary, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, Team USA, and the 
Assistant, shall launch, in accordance with applicable nuclear 
technology export laws (including regulations), an international 
initiative to modernize the civil nuclear outreach carried out by the 
United States for the purpose of establishing cooperative financing 
relationships for the export of civil nuclear technology, components, 
materials, and infrastructure to countries in the coalition described 
in subsection (b).
    (b) Coalition Described.--The coalition referred to in subsection 
(a) is a coalition of countries that--
            (1) is developed for purposes of carrying out the 
        initiative described in subsection (a); and
            (2) includes each ally or partner nation that is willing to 
        participate in the coalition.
    (c) Activities.--In carrying out the initiative described in 
subsection (a), the Secretary of State shall--
            (1) assist nongovernmental organizations and appropriate 
        offices, administrations, agencies, laboratories, and programs 
        of the Department of Energy in providing education and training 
        to foreign governments in nuclear safety, security, and 
        safeguards--
                    (A) through engagement with the International 
                Atomic Energy Agency; or
                    (B) independently, if the applicable entity 
                determines that it would be more advantageous under the 
                circumstances to provide the applicable education and 
                training independently;
            (2) assist the efforts of the International Atomic Energy 
        Agency to expand the support provided by the International 
        Atomic Energy Agency to embarking civil nuclear energy nations 
        for nuclear safety, security, and safeguards;
            (3) expand outreach by the Assistant to the private 
        investment community to create public-private financing 
        relationships to assist in the export of civil nuclear 
        technology to countries in the coalition described in 
        subsection (b);
            (4) seek to coordinate, to the maximum extent practicable, 
        the work carried out by each of--
                    (A) the Nuclear Regulatory Commission;
                    (B) the Department of Energy;
                    (C) the Department of Commerce;
                    (D) the International Atomic Energy Agency;
                    (E) the Nuclear Energy Agency; and
                    (F) the nuclear regulatory agencies and 
                organizations of embarking civil nuclear energy nations 
                and ally or partner nations; and
            (5) improve the regulatory framework to allow for the 
        expeditious exporting and importing of civil nuclear 
        technologies and materials.

SEC. 5. COOPERATIVE FINANCING RELATIONSHIPS WITH ALLY OR PARTNER 
              NATIONS AND EMBARKING CIVIL NUCLEAR ENERGY NATIONS.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, the Secretary of State, the 
Secretary of Commerce, the President of the Export-Import Bank of the 
United States, and the Chief Executive Officer of the United States 
International Development Finance Corporation, in coordination with the 
Assistant, shall develop cooperative financing relationships with ally 
or partner nations or embarking civil nuclear energy nations to advance 
civil nuclear exports from the United States to ally or partner nations 
or embarking civil nuclear energy nations.
    (b) United States Competitiveness Clauses.--
            (1) Definition of united states competitiveness clause.--In 
        this subsection, the term ``United States competitiveness 
        clause'' means any United States competitiveness provision in 
        any agreement entered into by the Department of Energy, 
        including--
                    (A) a cooperative agreement;
                    (B) a cooperative research and development 
                agreement; and
                    (C) a patent waiver.
            (2) Consideration.--In carrying out subsection (a), the 
        Secretary, the Secretary of State, the Secretary of Commerce, 
        the President of the Export-Import Bank of the United States, 
        and the Chief Executive Officer of the United States 
        International Development Finance Corporation shall consider 
        the impact of United States competitiveness clauses on any 
        cooperative financing relationships entered into or proposed to 
        be entered into under that subsection.
            (3) Waiver.--The Secretary shall facilitate waivers of 
        United States competitiveness clauses as necessary to 
        facilitate cooperative financing relationships with ally or 
        partner nations or embarking civil nuclear energy nations under 
        subsection (a).

SEC. 6. FAST-TRACK PROCEDURES AND EXPORT CONTROLS.

    Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary shall promulgate a regulation revising part 810 of title 
10, Code of Federal Regulations, to establish fast-track procedures for 
obtaining specific authorizations for exports, which may be similar to 
existing fast-track procedures in existing Federal export-control 
regulations--
            (1) for deemed exports to--
                    (A) a list of countries defined by the Secretary;
                    (B) a list of countries defined by the Secretary of 
                State;
                    (C) a list of countries defined by the Secretary of 
                the Treasury;
                    (D) a list of countries defined by the Secretary of 
                Commerce; or
                    (E) destinations based on country criteria defined 
                by the Secretary; or
            (2) for widely deployed technologies available from 
        multiple suppliers, such as light water reactor technology.

SEC. 7. COOPERATION WITH ALLY OR PARTNER NATIONS ON ADVANCED NUCLEAR 
              REACTOR DEMONSTRATION AND COOPERATIVE RESEARCH 
              FACILITIES.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment 
of this Act, the Secretary of State, in coordination with the 
Secretary, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Assistant, shall conduct 
bilateral and multilateral meetings with not fewer than 5 ally or 
partner nations, with the aim of enhancing nuclear energy cooperation 
among those ally or partner nations and the United States, for the 
purpose of developing collaborative relationships with respect to 
research, development, licensing, and deployment of advanced nuclear 
reactor technologies.
    (b) Requirement.--The meetings described in subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) a focus on cooperation to demonstrate and deploy 
        advanced nuclear reactors, with an emphasis on U.S. nuclear 
        energy companies, during the 10-year period beginning on the 
        date of enactment of this Act to provide options for addressing 
        climate change by 2050; and
            (2) a focus on developing a memorandum of understanding or 
        any other appropriate agreement between the United States and 
        ally or partner nations with respect to--
                    (A) the demonstration and deployment of advanced 
                nuclear reactors; and
                    (B) the development of cooperative research 
                facilities.
    (c) Financing Arrangements.--In conducting the meetings described 
in subsection (a), the Secretary of State, in coordination with the 
Secretary, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Assistant, shall seek to 
develop financing arrangements to share the costs of the demonstration 
and deployment of advanced nuclear reactors and the development of 
cooperative research facilities with the ally or partner nations 
participating in those meetings.
    (d) Report.--Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
this Act, the Secretary, the Secretary of State, and the Secretary of 
Commerce shall jointly submit to Congress a report highlighting 
potential partners--
            (1) for the establishment of cost-share arrangements 
        described in subsection (c); or
            (2) with which the United States may enter into agreements 
        with respect to--
                    (A) the demonstration of advanced nuclear reactors; 
                or
                    (B) cooperative research facilities.

SEC. 8. INTERNATIONAL NUCLEAR ENERGY COOPERATION.

    Section 959B of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 (42 U.S.C. 16279b) is 
amended--
            (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking 
        ``The Secretary'' and inserting the following:
    ``(a) In General.--The Secretary'';
            (2) in subsection (a) (as so designated)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) by striking ``financing,''; and
                            (ii) by striking ``and'' after the 
                        semicolon at the end;
                    (B) in paragraph (2)--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``preparations for''; and
                            (ii) in subparagraph (C)(v), by striking 
                        the period at the end and inserting a 
                        semicolon; and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) to support, in consultation with the Secretary of 
        State, the safe, secure, and peaceful use of nuclear technology 
        in countries developing nuclear energy programs, with a focus 
        on countries that have increased civil nuclear cooperation with 
        the Russian Federation or the People's Republic of China; and
            ``(4) to promote the fullest utilization of United States 
        reactors, fuel, equipment, services, and technology in nuclear 
        energy programs outside the United States through--
                    ``(A) bilateral and multilateral arrangements that 
                contain commitments for the utilization of United 
                States reactors, fuel, equipment, services, and 
                technology;
                    ``(B) the designation of 1 or more U.S. nuclear 
                energy companies (as defined in section 2 of the 
                International Nuclear Energy Act of 2022) to implement 
                an arrangement under subparagraph (A) if the Secretary 
                determines that the designation is necessary and 
                appropriate to achieve the objectives of this section;
                    ``(C) the waiver of any provision of law relating 
                to competition with respect to any activity related to 
                an arrangement under subparagraph (A) if the Secretary, 
                in consultation with the Attorney General and the 
                Secretary of Commerce, determines that a waiver is 
                necessary and appropriate to achieve the objectives of 
                this section; and
                    ``(D) the issuance of loans, loan guarantees, other 
                financial assistance, or assistance in the form of an 
                equity interest to carry out activities related to an 
                arrangement under subparagraph (A), to the extent 
                appropriated funds are available.''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following:
    ``(b) Requirements.--The program under subsection (a) shall--
            ``(1) with respect to the function described in subsection 
        (a)(3), be modeled after the International Military Education 
        and Training program of the Department of State; and
            ``(2) be carried out--
                    ``(A) to facilitate, to the maximum extent 
                practicable, workshops and expert-based exchanges to 
                engage industry, stakeholders, and foreign governments 
                with respect to international civil nuclear issues, 
                such as--
                            ``(i) training;
                            ``(ii) financing;
                            ``(iii) safety;
                            ``(iv) security;
                            ``(v) safeguards;
                            ``(vi) liability;
                            ``(vii) advanced fuels;
                            ``(viii) operations; and
                            ``(ix) options for multinational 
                        cooperation with respect to the disposal of 
                        spent nuclear fuel (as defined in section 2 of 
                        the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 (42 U.S.C. 
                        10101)); and
                    ``(B) in coordination with--
                            ``(i) the National Security Council;
                            ``(ii) the Secretary of State;
                            ``(iii) the Secretary of Commerce; and
                            ``(iv) the Nuclear Regulatory Commission.
    ``(c) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary to carry out subsection (a)(3) 
$15,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.''.

SEC. 9. INTERNATIONAL CIVIL NUCLEAR PROGRAM SUPPORT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 120 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in coordination with the 
Secretary and the Assistant, shall launch an international initiative 
(referred to in this section as the ``initiative'') to provide grants, 
in accordance with this section--
            (1) to embarking civil nuclear energy nations for 
        activities relating to the development of civil nuclear 
        programs; and
            (2) to ally or partner nations for the construction of 
        nuclear reactors and advanced nuclear reactors.
    (b) Grants.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the initiative, the 
        Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary and the 
        Assistant, may award not more than 1 grant to each country, 
        including each embarking civil nuclear energy nation, each 
        fiscal year.
            (2) Amount.--The amount of a grant awarded under the 
        initiative shall be not more than $5,500,000.
            (3) Limitation.--The Secretary of State, in coordination 
        with the Secretary and the Assistant, may award not more than a 
        total of 5 grants under the initiative to a single country, 
        including each embarking civil nuclear energy nation.
    (c) Senior Advisors.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the initiative, the 
        Secretary of State, in coordination with the Secretary and the 
        Assistant, shall provide a grant to an embarking civil nuclear 
        energy nation with the option for a U.S. nuclear energy company 
        to hire 1 or more senior advisors to assist the embarking civil 
        nuclear energy nation in establishing a civil nuclear program.
            (2) Requirement.--A senior advisor described in paragraph 
        (1) shall seek to advise the embarking civil nuclear energy 
        nation on, and facilitate on behalf of the embarking civil 
        nuclear energy nation, 1 or more of the following:
                    (A) The development of financing relationships.
                    (B) The development of a standardized financing and 
                project management framework for the construction of 
                nuclear power plants.
                    (C) The development of a standardized licensing 
                framework for--
                            (i) light water civil nuclear technologies; 
                        and
                            (ii) non-light water civil nuclear 
                        technologies and advanced nuclear reactors.
                    (D) The identification of qualified organizations 
                and service providers.
                    (E) The identification of funds to support payment 
                for services required to develop a civil nuclear 
                program.
                    (F) Market analysis.
                    (G) The identification of the safety, security, 
                safeguards, and nuclear governance required for a civil 
                nuclear program.
                    (H) Risk allocation, risk management, and nuclear 
                liability.
                    (I) Technical assessments of nuclear reactors and 
                technologies.
                    (J) The identification of actions necessary to 
                participate in a global nuclear liability regime based 
                on the Convention on Supplementary Compensation for 
                Nuclear Damage, with Annex, done at Vienna September 
                12, 1997 (TIAS 15-415).
                    (K) Stakeholder engagement.
                    (L) Management of spent nuclear fuel and nuclear 
                waste.
                    (M) Any other major activities to support the 
                establishment of a civil nuclear program, such as the 
                establishment of export, financing, construction, 
                training, operations, and education requirements.
    (d) Authorization of Appropriations.--There is authorized to be 
appropriated to the Secretary of State to carry out the initiative 
$50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027.

SEC. 10. BIENNIAL NUCLEAR SAFETY, SECURITY, SAFEGUARDS, AND 
              SUSTAINABILITY SUMMIT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, the Secretary of State, the 
Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, the Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission, and the Assistant shall hold a biennial nuclear safety, 
security, safeguards, and sustainability summit (referred to in this 
section as a ``summit''), the first of which shall be held on the date 
that is 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Location.--Each summit shall be held in--
            (1) Washington, DC; or
            (2) a country described in any of subparagraphs (A) through 
        (H) of section 2(2).
    (c) Requirement.--Each summit shall--
            (1) be a forum in which leaders of ally or partner nations 
        may engage with each other for the purpose of reinforcing the 
        commitment to nuclear safety, security, safeguards, and 
        sustainability; and
            (2) facilitate the development of--
                    (A) joint commitments and goals to improve nuclear 
                safety, security, safeguards, and sustainability;
                    (B) stronger international institutions that 
                support nuclear safety, security, safeguards, and 
                sustainability; and
                    (C) a global nuclear liability regime.
    (d) Input From Industry and Government.--Each summit shall include 
a meeting that convenes nuclear industry leaders and leaders of 
government agencies with expertise relating to nuclear safety, 
security, safeguards, or sustainability to discuss best practices 
relating to--
            (1) the safe and secure use, storage, and transport of 
        nuclear and radiological materials;
            (2) managing the evolving cyber threat to nuclear and 
        radiological security; and
            (3) the role that the nuclear industry should play in 
        nuclear and radiological safety, security, and safeguards, 
        including with respect to the safe and secure use, storage, and 
        transport of nuclear and radiological materials, including 
        spent nuclear fuel and nuclear waste.
    (e) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the end of 
        each summit, the Secretary, the Secretary of State, the 
        Secretary of Defense, the Secretary of Commerce, the Nuclear 
        Regulatory Commission, and the Assistant shall jointly submit 
        to Congress a report highlighting--
                    (A) any commitments made by the United States or 
                international partners of the United States, including 
                an ally or partner nation, with respect to nuclear 
                safety, security, safeguards, or sustainability; and
                    (B) the objectives that the parties to those 
                commitments agreed to meet.
            (2) Requirement.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
        detail--
                    (A) any current and continuing nuclear security 
                threat;
                    (B) any progress made toward advancing nuclear 
                security-related treaties;
                    (C) any steps taken or needed to be taken--
                            (i) to fulfill any obligations of the 
                        United States under existing nuclear security 
                        and safeguard treaties;
                            (ii) to manage cyber threats; or
                            (iii) to prevent the theft, sabotage, and 
                        illicit trafficking of nuclear materials, 
                        facilities, and technology, as applicable;
                    (D) the role of the nuclear industry in preventing 
                nuclear proliferation; and
                    (E) any other topics discussed during the summit 
                that relate to nuclear safety, security, safeguards, or 
                sustainability.

SEC. 11. ADVANCED REACTOR COORDINATION AND RESOURCE CENTER.

    The Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of State, the 
Secretary of Commerce, the Chairman of the Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission, the President of the Export-Import Bank of the United 
States, and the Chief Executive Officer of the United States 
International Development Finance Corporation, shall establish a 
center, to be known as the ``Advanced Reactor Coordination and Resource 
Center'', for the purposes of--
            (1) identifying qualified organizations and service 
        providers--
                    (A) for embarking civil nuclear energy nations;
                    (B) to develop and assemble documents, contracts, 
                and related items required to establish a civil nuclear 
                program; and
                    (C) to develop a standardized model for the 
                establishment of a civil nuclear program that can be 
                used by the International Atomic Energy Agency;
            (2) coordinating with countries participating in the Center 
        and with the Nuclear Exports Working Group established under 
        section 3(b)--
                    (A) to identify funds to support payment for 
                services required to develop a civil nuclear program;
                    (B) to provide market analysis; and
                    (C) to create--
                            (i) project structure models;
                            (ii) models for electricity market 
                        analysis;
                            (iii) models for nonelectric applications 
                        market analysis; and
                            (iv) financial models;
            (3) identifying and developing the safety, security, 
        safeguards, and nuclear governance required for a civil nuclear 
        program;
            (4) supporting multinational regulatory standards to be 
        developed by countries with civil nuclear programs and 
        experience;
            (5) developing and strengthening communications, 
        engagement, and consensus-building;
            (6) carrying out any other major activities to support 
        export, financing, education, construction, training, and 
        education requirements relating to the establishment of a civil 
        nuclear program;
            (7) developing mechanisms for how to fund and staff the 
        Center; and
            (8) determining mechanisms for the selection of the 
        location or locations of the Center.

SEC. 12. BIENNIAL CIVIL NUCLEAR VENDOR SUMMIT.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary, the Secretary of State, the 
Secretary of Commerce, the President of the Export-Import Bank of the 
United States, the Chief Executive Officer of the United States 
International Development Finance Corporation, and the Assistant shall 
hold a biennial civil nuclear vendor summit (referred to in this 
section as a ``summit''), the first of which shall be held on the date 
that is 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act.
    (b) Location.--Each summit shall be held in--
            (1) Washington, DC; or
            (2) a country described in any of subparagraphs (A) through 
        (H) of section 2(2).
    (c) Requirement.--Each summit shall--
            (1) be a forum in which leaders of ally or partner nations 
        may engage with each other for the purpose of promoting the 
        peaceful, responsible, and safe use of civil nuclear 
        technologies; and
            (2) facilitate--
                    (A) the development of--
                            (i) cooperative financing relationships to 
                        promote competitive alternatives to Chinese and 
                        Russian financing;
                            (ii) a standardized financing and project 
                        management framework for the construction of 
                        nuclear power plants;
                            (iii) a standardized licensing framework 
                        for civil nuclear technologies;
                            (iv) a strategy to change internal policies 
                        of multinational development banks, such as the 
                        World Bank, to support the financing of civil 
                        nuclear projects;
                            (v) a document containing any lessons 
                        learned from countries that have partnered with 
                        the Russian Federation or the People's Republic 
                        of China with respect to nuclear power, 
                        including any detrimental outcomes resulting 
                        from that partnership; and
                            (vi) a global nuclear liability regime;
                    (B) cooperation for enhancing the overall aspects 
                of civil nuclear power, such as--
                            (i) nuclear safety, security, and 
                        safeguards;
                            (ii) nuclear laws (including regulations);
                            (iii) waste management;
                            (iv) quality management systems;
                            (v) technology transfer;
                            (vi) human resources development;
                            (vii) localization;
                            (viii) reactor operations;
                            (ix) nuclear liability; and
                            (x) decommissioning; and
                    (C) the development and determination of the 
                mechanisms described in paragraphs (7) and (8) of 
                section 11.
    (d) Report.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 120 days after the end of 
        each summit, the Secretary, the Secretary of State, the 
        Secretary of Commerce, the President of the Export-Import Bank 
        of the United States, the Chief Executive Officer of the United 
        States International Development Finance Corporation, and the 
        Assistant shall jointly submit to Congress a report 
        highlighting--
                    (A) any commitments made by the United States or 
                international partners of the United States, including 
                an ally or partner nation, with respect to 
                international civil nuclear export practices; and
                    (B) the objectives that the parties to those 
                commitments agreed to meet.
            (2) Requirement.--The report under paragraph (1) shall 
        detail--
                    (A) any steps taken to establish common financing 
                relationships;
                    (B) any progress made toward establishing a 
                standardized financing, project management, and 
                licensing framework;
                    (C) any changes to the internal policies of 
                multinational development banks, such as the World 
                Bank, to support civil nuclear projects;
                    (D) any steps taken or needed to be taken--
                            (i) to rectify any obstacles that were 
                        identified after the applicable civil nuclear 
                        vendor summit but were unforeseen at the time 
                        of, and not discussed at, that summit;
                            (ii) to enable early-stage day-to-day 
                        support of embarking civil nuclear energy 
                        nations;
                            (iii) to address any gaps in the whole-of-
                        government approach to international civil 
                        nuclear cooperation, exports, and investment 
                        developed by the Assistant; or
                            (iv) to improve the role of the Assistant 
                        in international outreach;
                    (E) the role of the nuclear industry in 
                establishing cooperative relationships; and
                    (F) the competitiveness of available United States 
                financing packages for civil nuclear exports, relative 
                to international competitors.

SEC. 13. STRATEGIC INFRASTRUCTURE FUND WORKING GROUP.

    (a) Establishment.--There is established a working group, to be 
known as the ``Strategic Infrastructure Fund Working Group'' (referred 
to in this section as the ``working group'').
    (b) Composition.--The working group shall be--
            (1) led by the Assistant; and
            (2) composed of--
                    (A) senior-level Federal officials, selected by the 
                head of the applicable Federal agency or organization, 
                from--
                            (i) the Department of State;
                            (ii) the Department of the Treasury;
                            (iii) the Department of Commerce;
                            (iv) the Department of Energy;
                            (v) the Export-Import Bank of the United 
                        States;
                            (vi) the United States International 
                        Development Finance Corporation; and
                            (vii) the Nuclear Regulatory Commission;
                    (B) other senior-level Federal officials, selected 
                by the head of the applicable Federal agency or 
                organization, from any other Federal agency or 
                organization that the Secretary determines to be 
                appropriate; and
                    (C) any senior-level Federal official selected by 
                the Assistant from any Federal agency or organization.
    (c) Reporting.--The working group shall report to the National 
Security Council.
    (d) Duties.--The working group shall--
            (1) provide direction and advice to the Assistant with 
        respect to the establishment of a Strategic Infrastructure Fund 
        (referred to in this subsection as the ``Fund'') to be used--
                    (A) to support those aspects of projects relating 
                to--
                            (i) civil nuclear technologies;
                            (ii) rare earth elements and critical 
                        minerals (as defined in section 7002(a) of the 
                        Energy Act of 2020 (30 U.S.C. 1606(a))); and
                            (iii) microprocessors; and
                    (B) for strategic investments identified by the 
                working group; and
            (2) address critical areas in determining the appropriate 
        design for the Fund, including--
                    (A) transfer of assets to the Fund;
                    (B) transfer of assets from the Fund;
                    (C) how assets in the Fund should be invested; and
                    (D) governance and implementation of the Fund.
    (e) Report Required.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
        the enactment of this Act, the working group shall submit to 
        the committees described in paragraph (2) a report on the 
        findings of the working group that includes suggested 
        legislative text for how to establish and structure a Strategic 
        Infrastructure Fund.
            (2) Committees described.--The committees referred to in 
        paragraph (1) are--
                    (A) the Committee on Foreign Relations, the 
                Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, the 
                Committee on Armed Services, the Committee on Energy 
                and Natural Resources, the Committee on Environment and 
                Public Works, and the Committee on Finance of the 
                Senate; and
                    (B) the Committee on Foreign Affairs, the Committee 
                on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Armed 
                Services, the Committee on Science, Space, and 
                Technology, and the Committee on Ways and Means of the 
                House of Representatives.

SEC. 14. INVESTMENT BY ALLIES AND PARTNERS OF THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Commercial Licenses.--Section 103 d. of the Atomic Energy Act 
of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2133(d)) is amended, in the second sentence--
            (1) by inserting ``for a production facility'' after ``No 
        license''; and
            (2) by striking ``any any'' and inserting ``any''.
    (b) Medical Therapy and Research Development Licenses.--Section 104 
d. of the Atomic Energy Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2134(d)) is amended, in 
the second sentence, by inserting ``for a production facility'' after 
``No license''.

SEC. 15. MODIFICATION OF POWERS AND FUNCTIONS OF THE EXPORT-IMPORT BANK 
              OF THE UNITED STATES.

    (a) Modification of Prohibition on Financing.--Section 2(b)(5) of 
the Export-Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(b)(5)) is amended, in 
the first sentence, by striking ``any liquid metal fast breeder nuclear 
reactor or''.
    (b) Expansion of Program on Transformational Exports.--
            (1) In general.--Section 2(l) of the Export-Import Bank Act 
        of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635(l)) is amended--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``China 
                and'';
                    (B) in paragraph (1)--
                            (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph 
                        (A)--
                                    (I) by striking ``The Bank shall 
                                establish a Program on China and'' and 
                                inserting ``Notwithstanding the 
                                Arrangement, the Bank shall establish a 
                                Program on'';
                                    (II) by striking ``conditions,'' 
                                and inserting ``conditions that, in the 
                                judgement of the Board of Directors of 
                                the Bank, offer sufficient likelihood 
                                of repayment to justify the loan, 
                                guarantee, or insurance, as 
                                applicable,''; and
                                    (III) by striking ``by the People's 
                                Republic of China or'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``by 
                        the People's Republic of China or''; and
                            (iii) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding clause 
                                (i), by striking ``the People's 
                                Republic of China'' and inserting 
                                ``covered countries'';
                                    (II) by redesignating clauses 
                                (viii) through (xi) as clauses (ix) 
                                through (xii), respectively; and
                                    (III) by inserting after clause 
                                (vii) the following:
                            ``(viii) Civil nuclear facilities, 
                        material, technologies, and related goods and 
                        services that support the development of an 
                        effective nuclear energy sector.'';
                    (C) by striking paragraph (2);
                    (D) by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph 
                (2);
                    (E) in paragraph (2), as so redesignated--
                            (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking 
                        ``China and'';
                            (ii) in subparagraph (B)--
                                    (I) in the matter preceding clause 
                                (i), by striking ``the People's 
                                Republic of China is'' and inserting 
                                ``the People's Republic of China and 
                                the Russian Federation are''; and
                                    (II) in clause (i), by striking ``; 
                                and'' and inserting ``; or'';
                            (iii) in subparagraph (C)--
                                    (I) in the subparagraph heading, by 
                                striking ``Sunset and'';
                                    (II) by striking the first 
                                sentence; and
                                    (III) by striking ``4 years after 
                                enactment of this subsection'' and 
                                inserting ``December 20, 2023''; and
                            (iv) in subparagraph (D), by striking 
                        ``China and''; and
                    (F) by adding at the end the following:
            ``(3) Sunset.--The Program on Transformational Exports 
        shall expire on December 31, 2026.
            ``(4) Definitions.--In this subsection:
                    ``(A) Arrangement.--The term `Arrangement' means 
                the Arrangement on Officially Supported Export Credits 
                of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and 
                Development.
                    ``(B) Covered country.--The term `covered country' 
                means--
                            ``(i) the People's Republic of China;
                            ``(ii) the Russian Federation; or
                            ``(iii) any country that--
                                    ``(I) the Secretary of the Treasury 
                                designates as a covered country in a 
                                report to the Committee on Banking, 
                                Housing, and Urban Development of the 
                                Senate and the Committee on Financial 
                                Services of the House of 
                                Representatives;
                                    ``(II) is not a participant in the 
                                Arrangement; and
                                    ``(III) is not in substantial 
                                compliance with the financial terms and 
                                conditions of the Arrangement.''.
            (2) Conforming amendment.--Section 8(l) of the Export-
        Import Bank Act of 1945 (12 U.S.C. 635g(l)) is amended--
                    (A) in the subsection heading, by striking ``Under 
                the'' and all that follows through ``Exports'' and 
                inserting ``Under the Program on Transformational 
                Exports''; and
                    (B) by striking ``China and''.
    (c) Reporting on Financing Related to People's Republic of China 
and Russian Federation.--Section 408 of title IV of division I of the 
Further Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2020 (Public Law 116-94; 12 
U.S.C. 635 note) is amended--
            (1) in the section heading, by striking ``china'' and 
        inserting ``the people's republic of china and the russian 
        federation'';
            (2) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``the government of China'' and inserting 
        ``the Government of the People's Republic of China or the 
        Government of the Russian Federation'';
            (3) in subsection (c)(1)(C), by striking ``the government 
        of China'' and inserting ``the Government of the People's 
        Republic of China or the Government of the Russian 
        Federation'';
            (4) by striking subsection (d) and inserting the following:
    ``(d) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Government of the people's republic of china.--The 
        term `Government of the People's Republic of China' means any 
        person that the Bank has reason to believe is--
                    ``(A) the state and the Government of the People's 
                Republic of China, as well as any political 
                subdivision, agency, or instrumentality thereof;
                    ``(B) any entity controlled, directly or 
                indirectly, by any of the foregoing, including any 
                partnership, association, or other entity in which any 
                of the foregoing owns a 50 percent or greater interest 
                or a controlling interest, and any entity which is 
                otherwise controlled by any of the foregoing;
                    ``(C) any person that is or has been acting or 
                purporting to act, directly or indirectly, for or on 
                behalf of any of the foregoing; and
                    ``(D) any other person which the Secretary of the 
                Treasury has notified the Bank is included in any of 
                the foregoing.
            ``(2) Government of the russian federation.--The term 
        `Government of the Russian Federation' means any person that 
        the Bank has reason to believe is--
                    ``(A) the state and the Government of the Russian 
                Federation, as well as any political subdivision, 
                agency, or instrumentality thereof;
                    ``(B) any entity controlled, directly or 
                indirectly, by any of the foregoing, including any 
                partnership, association, or other entity in which any 
                of the foregoing owns a 50 percent or greater interest 
                or a controlling interest, and any entity which is 
                otherwise controlled by any of the foregoing;
                    ``(C) any person that is or has been acting or 
                purporting to act, directly or indirectly, for or on 
                behalf of any of the foregoing; and
                    ``(D) any other person which the Secretary of the 
                Treasury has notified the Bank is included in any of 
                the foregoing.''; and
            (5) in subsection (e)(2), in the matter preceding 
        subparagraph (A), by striking ``China is'' and inserting ``the 
        People's Republic of China and the Russian Federation are''.

SEC. 16. U.S. NUCLEAR FUELS SECURITY INITIATIVE TO REDUCE RELIANCE ON 
              NUCLEAR FUELS FROM RUSSIA AND CHINA.

    (a) Objectives.--The objectives of this section are--
            (1) to expeditiously increase domestic production of low-
        enriched uranium (referred to in this section as ``LEU'') by an 
        annual amount determined by the Secretary to be appropriate to 
        reduce the reliance of the United States and ally or partner 
        nations on nuclear fuels from--
                    (A) the Russian Federation; and
                    (B) the People's Republic of China;
            (2) to expeditiously increase domestic production of high-
        assay low-enriched uranium (referred to in this section as 
        ``HALEU'') by an annual amount determined by the Secretary to 
        be sufficient to meet the needs of the consortium established 
        under section 2001(a)(2)(F) of the Energy Policy Act of 2020 
        (42 U.S.C. 16281(a)(2)(F));
            (3) to ensure the availability of domestically produced and 
        converted uranium in an amount determined by the Secretary to 
        be sufficient to address a reasonably anticipated supply 
        disruption;
            (4) to promote the domestic production, conversion, and 
        enrichment of uranium; and
            (5) to promote the deployment of United States uranium 
        enrichment technology.
    (b) Definition of Programs.--In this section, the term ``Programs'' 
means--
            (1) the Nuclear Fuel Security Program established under 
        subsection (c)(1);
            (2) the National Strategic Uranium Reserve Program 
        established under subsection (c)(2); and
            (3) the American Assured Fuel Supply Program of the 
        Department of Energy.
    (c) Establishment.--The Secretary, consistent with the objectives 
described in subsection (a), shall establish--
            (1) a program, to be known as the ``Nuclear Fuel Security 
        Program'', to reduce the reliance of the United States and ally 
        or partner nations on nuclear fuels from the Russian Federation 
        and the People's Republic of China by increasing the amounts of 
        LEU and HALEU produced by U.S. nuclear energy companies; and
            (2) a program, to be known as the ``National Strategic 
        Uranium Reserve Program'', to ensure the availability of 
        domestically produced and converted uranium in the event of a 
        supply disruption.
    (d) Nuclear Fuel Security Program.--In carrying out the Nuclear 
Fuel Security Program, the Secretary shall--
            (1) not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, select 1 or more U.S. nuclear energy companies to 
        produce LEU in amounts and timeframes specified by the 
        Secretary;
            (2) not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of 
        this Act, select 1 or more U.S. nuclear energy companies to 
        produce HALEU in amounts and timeframes specified by the 
        Secretary;
            (3) utilize only uranium produced and converted in the 
        United States or a country described in any of subparagraphs 
        (A) through (H) of section 2(2);
            (4) coordinate the operations of the Nuclear Fuel Security 
        Program and the National Strategic Uranium Reserve Program as 
        the Secretary determines to be appropriate; and
            (5) take other actions that the Secretary determines to be 
        necessary or appropriate to reduce the reliance of the United 
        States and ally or partner nations on nuclear fuels from the 
        Russian Federation and the People's Republic of China.
    (e) National Strategic Uranium Reserve Program.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the National Strategic 
        Uranium Reserve Program, the Secretary shall--
                    (A) immediately on enactment of this Act, use the 
                funds reallocated by paragraph (2) to initiate the 
                establishment of a National Strategic Uranium Reserve;
                    (B) make the National Strategic Uranium Reserve 
                operational by acquiring uranium in amounts and 
                timeframes specified by the Secretary;
                    (C) maintain, replenish, or increase the amount of 
                uranium in the National Strategic Uranium Reserve in a 
                manner determined by the Secretary to be consistent 
                with the objectives described in subsection (a);
                    (D) utilize only uranium produced and converted in 
                the United States;
                    (E) make uranium available from the National 
                Strategic Uranium Reserve, subject to terms and 
                conditions determined by the Secretary to be reasonable 
                and appropriate;
                    (F) coordinate the operations of the Nuclear Fuel 
                Security Program and the National Strategic Uranium 
                Reserve Program as the Secretary determines to be 
                appropriate; and
                    (G) take other actions that the Secretary 
                determines to be necessary or appropriate to address a 
                uranium supply disruption.
            (2) Reallocation.--Notwithstanding any other provision of 
        law, amounts made available to the National Nuclear Security 
        Administration for the Uranium Reserve Program by, and 
        described in the first proviso in, the matter under the heading 
        ``Weapons Activities'' under the heading ``NATIONAL NUCLEAR 
        SECURITY ADMINISTRATION'' under the heading ``ATOMIC ENERGY 
        DEFENSE ACTIVITIES'' in title III of division D of the 
        Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (Public Law 116-260; 134 
        Stat. 1369), that remain available as of the date of enactment 
        of this Act shall be reallocated, as directed by the Secretary, 
        for the purpose of establishing and initiating operation of the 
        National Strategic Uranium Reserve by--
                    (A) continuing the activities initiated by the 
                National Nuclear Security Administration using the 
                amounts described in that proviso;
                    (B) carrying out other activities consistent with 
                the purposes for which those amounts were made 
                available under that Act; and
                    (C) carrying out activities in accordance with the 
                objectives described in subsection (a).
    (f) Continuation of the American Assured Fuel Supply Program.--In 
carrying out the American Assured Fuel Supply Program, the Secretary 
shall--
            (1) maintain, replenish, or increase the amount of uranium 
        in the National Strategic Uranium Reserve in a manner 
        determined by the Secretary to be consistent with the purposes 
        of that program and the objectives described in subsection (a);
            (2) make uranium available from the American Assured Fuel 
        Supply, subject to terms and conditions determined by the 
        Secretary to be reasonable and appropriate;
            (3) coordinate the operations of the National Strategic 
        Uranium Reserve Program and the American Assured Fuel Supply 
        Program as the Secretary determines to be appropriate;
            (4) if determined by the Secretary to be appropriate and 
        consistent with the objectives described in subsection (a), 
        merge the operations of the National Strategic Uranium Reserve 
        Program and the American Assured Fuel Supply Program; and
            (5) take other actions that the Secretary determines to be 
        necessary or appropriate to address the purposes of the 
        American Assured Fuel Supply Program and the objectives 
        described in subsection (a).
    (g) Authority.--
            (1) In general.--In carrying out the Programs, the 
        Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of State, may--
                    (A) in addition to exercising the authority granted 
                to the Secretary under any other provision of law, 
                enter into transactions (other than contracts, 
                cooperative agreements, financial assistance 
                agreements, or the provision of any other financial 
                assistance) with an ally or partner nation, a U.S. 
                energy company, or any other domestic or foreign entity 
                for any activity to carry out the Programs, including 
                the acquisition or provision of uranium, conversion 
                services, enrichment services, LEU, HALEU, and related 
                goods and services, in the same manner as the Secretary 
                of Defense under section 4021 of title 10, United 
                States Code (other than subsections (b) and (f) of that 
                section);
                    (B) make acquisitions for the Programs through the 
                use of competitive selection processes that the 
                Secretary determines to be appropriate to achieve the 
                objectives described in subsection (a) in an 
                expeditious manner;
                    (C)(i) establish milestones for achieving specified 
                objectives, including the production of LEU and HALEU 
                in amounts and timeframes specified by the Secretary; 
                and
                    (ii) provide awards and other forms of incentives 
                for meeting those milestones;
                    (D) provide loan guarantees, other financial 
                assistance, or assistance in the form of revenue 
                guarantees or similar mechanisms;
                    (E) charge an amount for the provision of uranium, 
                conversion services, enrichment services, LEU, HALEU, 
                and other goods and services that, in the opinion of 
                the Secretary, provides reasonable compensation, taking 
                into account fair market value and the objectives 
                described in subsection (a); and
                    (F) notwithstanding section 3302 of title 31, 
                United States Code--
                            (i) receive and retain revenues from the 
                        sale or transfer of uranium, LEU, or HALEU and 
                        from other activities related to the Programs; 
                        and
                            (ii) expend those revenues for purposes 
                        related to the program from which the revenues 
                        are derived.
            (2) Availability of funds.--The revenues described in 
        paragraph (1)(F) shall remain available until expended.
    (h) Domestic Sourcing Considerations.--
            (1) In general.--Except as provided in paragraph (2), the 
        Secretary may only carry out an activity in connection with 1 
        or more of the Programs if--
                    (A) the activity promotes manufacturing in the 
                United States; or
                    (B) the activity relies on resources, materials, or 
                equipment developed or produced--
                            (i) in the United States; or
                            (ii) in a country described in any of 
                        subparagraphs (A) through (H) of section 2(2) 
                        by--
                                    (I) a U.S. nuclear energy company;
                                    (II) an ally or partner nation; or
                                    (III) an associated entity.
            (2) Waiver.--The Secretary may waive the requirements of 
        paragraph (1) with respect to an activity if the Secretary 
        determines a waiver to be necessary to achieve 1 or more of the 
        objectives described in subsection (a).
    (i) Exclusions.--The Secretary may not carry out an activity in 
connection with the Programs with an entity that is--
            (1) owned or controlled by the Government of the Russian 
        Federation or the Government of the People's Republic of China; 
        or
            (2) organized under the laws of, or otherwise subject to 
        the jurisdiction of, the Russian Federation or the People's 
        Republic of China.
    (j) Nuclear Regulatory Commission.--The Nuclear Regulatory 
Commission shall prioritize and expedite consideration of any action 
related to the Programs to the extent permitted under the Atomic Energy 
Act of 1954 (42 U.S.C. 2011 et seq.) and related statutes.
    (k) USEC Privatization Act.--
            (1) In general.--The requirements of section 3112 of the 
        USEC Privatization Act (42 U.S.C. 2297h-10) shall not apply to 
        activities related to the Programs.
            (2) Amendment.--Section 3112A(c)(2)(A) of the USEC 
        Privatization Act (42 U.S.C. 2297h-10a(c)(2)(A)) is amended--
                    (A) in clause (xii), by inserting ``and'' after the 
                semicolon at the end;
                    (B) by striking clauses (xiii) through (xxvii); and
                    (C) by adding at the end the following:
                            ``(xiii) in calendar year 2026 and each 
                        calendar year thereafter, 0 kilograms.''.
    (l) Authorization of Appropriations.--In addition to amounts 
otherwise available, there are authorized to be appropriated to the 
Secretary--
            (1) for the Nuclear Fuel Security Program, $3,500,000,000 
        for fiscal year 2023, to remain available until September 30, 
        2031; and
            (2) for the National Strategic Uranium Reserve Program and 
        the American Assured Fuel Supply Program, such sums as are 
        necessary for the period of fiscal years 2023 through 2030, to 
        remain available until September 30, 2031.
                                 
