
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 5681 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.5681

                    One Hundred Seventeenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Monday,
          the third day of January, two thousand and twenty-two


                                 An Act


 
 To authorize the reclassification of the tactical enforcement officers 
   (commonly known as the ``Shadow Wolves'') in the Homeland Security 
Investigations tactical patrol unit operating on the lands of the Tohono 
        O'odham Nation as special agents, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Shadow Wolves Enhancement Act''.
SEC. 2. RECLASSIFICATION OF SHADOW WOLVES AS GS-1811 SPECIAL AGENTS.
    The Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement is 
authorized--
        (1) to reclassify the GS-1801 tactical enforcement officers 
    (commonly known as ``Shadow Wolves'') assigned to the Homeland 
    Security Investigations tactical patrol unit operating on the lands 
    of the Tohono O'odham Nation, as of the date of the enactment of 
    this Act, as GS-1811 special agents, upon the successful completion 
    of--
            (A) the Federal Law Enforcement Training Center's Criminal 
        Investigator Training Program; and
            (B)(i) Customs Basic Enforcement School, if the officer was 
        hired before March 2003; or
            (ii) U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement Homeland 
        Security Investigations Special Agent Training, if the officer 
        was hired during or after March 2003;
        (2) to classify any Shadow Wolves who are assigned to the unit 
    referred to in paragraph (1) after such date of enactment as GS-
    1811 special agents upon the successful completion of the training 
    described in paragraph (1); and
        (3) to classify as GS-1811 special agents upon the successful 
    completion of the training described in paragraph (1) any Shadow 
    Wolves who are hired as part of a comparable unit (regardless of 
    location) established after such date of enactment with the 
    approval and consent of the appropriate Indian tribe.
SEC. 3. EXPANSION OF SHADOW WOLVES PROGRAM.
    Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, 
the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the Comptroller 
General of the United States, the Committee on Homeland Security and 
Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committee on Homeland 
Security of the House of Representatives a strategy for--
        (1) retaining existing Shadow Wolves;
        (2) recruiting new Shadow Wolves; and
        (3) expanding comparable units referred to in section 2(3) to 
    appropriate areas near the international border between the United 
    States and Canada or the international border between the United 
    States and Mexico, with the approval and consent of the appropriate 
    Indian tribe.
SEC. 4. GAO REPORT.
    Not later than 1 year after receiving the strategy required under 
section 3 and annually thereafter for the following two years, the 
Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee 
on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the 
Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives--
        (1) an assessment of the effectiveness of such strategy; and
        (2) any recommendations for improvements to the strategy that 
    the Comptroller General determines to be appropriate.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
