
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H. Res. 881 Engrossed in House (EH)]


H. Res. 881

                In the House of Representatives, U. S.,

                                                         March 8, 2022.
Whereas, on January 15, 2022, Malik Faisal Akram entered Congregation Beth 
        Israel in Colleyville, Texas, taking four individuals hostage;
Whereas MI5, Britain's counterintelligence and security agency investigated Mr. 
        Akram in 2020, and he was listed as a subject of interest, but was later 
        determined to no longer pose a threat;
Whereas Mr. Akram arrived at New York's John F. Kennedy Airport on December 29, 
        2021, staying in New York City for two days until taking a flight to 
        Dallas, Texas;
Whereas it is reported Mr. Akram chose the synagogue because it appeared to be 
        the closest gathering of Jewish people to a Federal prison where he 
        demanded to see a woman who is in custody after being found guilty of 
        two counts of attempted murder, armed assault, using and carrying a 
        firearm, and three counts of assault on United States officers and 
        employees in Afghanistan;
Whereas according to the Anti-Defamation League, in 2020 and 2021, there were 
        8,366 incidents of extremism or antisemitism in the United States;
Whereas more than half of the religiously motivated hate crimes reported to the 
        Federal Bureau of Investigation in 2020 were anti-Jewish hate crimes;
Whereas Jewish Americans make up about 2 percent of the population of the United 
        States, but crimes against them make up 55 percent of the anti-religious 
        hate crimes in the United States;
Whereas, on Sunday, January 16, 2022, President Joe Biden classified this attack 
        as an act of terror and Vice President Kamala Harris affirmed we should 
        combat antisemitism and hate wherever it exists;
Whereas the four hostages were held for nearly 11 hours, during that time Rabbi 
        Charlie Cytron-Walker used the skills he learned by attending several 
        security courses hosted by local law enforcement, the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation, the Anti-Defamation League, and the Secure Community 
        Network;
Whereas Good Shepherd Catholic Community church provided support and housed 
        family members of the worshipers held inside the Synagogue during the 11 
        hour standoff;
Whereas Pleasant Run Baptist Church offered their thoughts and support during 
        the standoff, and allowed for their parking lot to be used by the media;
Whereas worshipers who were watching service virtually contacted local law 
        enforcement once they realized there was an incident underway at 
        Congregation Beth Israel; and
Whereas because of the swift response from local, State, and Federal law 
        enforcement officers and emergency responders on the ground, no hostages 
        were harmed during the hostage situation: Now, therefore, be it
    Resolved, That the House of Representatives--
            (1) stands with the community of Colleyville, Texas, the hostages, 
        and all those affected by the terrorist attack on Congregation Beth 
        Israel on January 15, 2022;
            (2) commends the Federal, State, and local law enforcement officers 
        and emergency responders who responded to Congregation Beth Israel in 
        Colleyville, Texas;
            (3) condemns this heinous terrorist attack; and
            (4) reaffirms our commitment to combat hate, bigotry, antisemitism, 
        and violence against Jewish Americans.
            Attest:

                                                                          Clerk.
