
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 6968 Engrossed Amendment Senate (EAS)]


  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  

                  In the Senate of the United States,

                                                         April 7, 2022.
    Resolved, That the bill from the House of Representatives (H.R. 
6968) entitled ``An Act to prohibit the importation of energy products 
of the Russian Federation, and for other purposes.'', do pass with the 
following

                               AMENDMENT:

             Strike all after the enacting clause and insert the 
      following:

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be known as the ``Ending Importation of Russian Oil 
Act''.

SEC. 2. PROHIBITION ON IMPORTATION OF ENERGY PRODUCTS OF THE RUSSIAN 
              FEDERATION.

    All products of the Russian Federation classified under chapter 27 
of the Harmonized Tariff Schedule of the United States shall be banned 
from importation into the United States, in a manner consistent with 
any implementation actions issued under Executive Order 14066 (87 Fed. 
Reg. 13625; relating to prohibiting certain imports and new investments 
with respect to continued Russian Federation efforts to undermine the 
sovereignty and territorial integrity of Ukraine).

SEC. 3. TERMINATION OF PROHIBITION ON IMPORTATION OF ENERGY PRODUCTS OF 
              THE RUSSIAN FEDERATION.

    (a) In General.--The President is authorized to terminate the 
prohibition on importation of energy products of the Russian Federation 
under section 2 if the President submits to Congress a certification 
under subsection (c). Such termination shall take effect beginning on 
the date that is 90 calendar days after the date of submission of such 
certification, unless there is enacted into law during such 90-day 
period a joint resolution of disapproval.
    (b) Consultation and Report.--The President shall, not later than 
45 calendar days before submitting a certification under subsection 
(a)--
            (1) consult with--
                    (A) the Committee on Ways and Means and the 
                Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of 
                Representatives; and
                    (B) the Committee on Finance and the Committee on 
                Foreign Relations of the Senate; and
            (2) submit to all such committees a report that explains 
        the basis for the determination of the President contained in 
        such certification.
    (c) Certification.--A certification under this subsection is a 
certification in writing that--
            (1) indicates that the President proposes to terminate 
        under subsection (a) the prohibition under section 2; and
            (2) contains a determination of the President that the 
        Russian Federation--
                    (A) has reached an agreement to withdraw Russian 
                forces and for the cessation of military hostilities 
                that is accepted by the free and independent government 
                of Ukraine;
                    (B) poses no immediate military threat of 
                aggression to any North Atlantic Treaty Organization 
                member; and
                    (C) recognizes the right of the people of Ukraine 
                to independently and freely choose their own 
                government.
    (d) Joint Resolution of Disapproval.--
            (1) Definition.--For purposes of this section, the term 
        ``joint resolution of disapproval'' means only a joint 
        resolution--
                    (A) that does not have a preamble;
                    (B) the title of which is as follows: ``Joint 
                resolution disapproving the President's certification 
                under section 3(c) of the Ending Importation of Russian 
                Oil Act.''; and
                    (C) the matter after the resolving clause of which 
                is as follows: ``That Congress disapproves the 
                certification of the President under section 3(c) of 
                the Ending Importation of Russian Oil Act, submitted to 
                Congress on ___'', the blank space being filled in with 
                the appropriate date.
            (2) Introduction in the house of representatives.--During a 
        period of 5 legislative days beginning on the date that a 
        certification under subsection (c) is submitted to Congress, a 
        joint resolution of disapproval may be introduced in the House 
        of Representatives by the majority leader or the minority 
        leader.
            (3) Introduction in the senate.--During a period of 5 days 
        on which the Senate is in session beginning on the date that a 
        certification under subsection (c) is submitted to Congress, a 
        joint resolution of disapproval may be introduced in the Senate 
        by the majority leader (or the majority leader's designee) or 
        the minority leader (or the minority leader's designee).
            (4) Floor consideration in the house of representatives.--
                    (A) Reporting and discharge.--If a committee of the 
                House to which a joint resolution of disapproval has 
                been referred has not reported such joint resolution 
                within 10 legislative days after the date of referral, 
                that committee shall be discharged from further 
                consideration thereof.
                    (B) Proceeding to consideration.--Beginning on the 
                third legislative day after each committee to which a 
                joint resolution of disapproval has been referred 
                reports it to the House or has been discharged from 
                further consideration thereof, it shall be in order to 
                move to proceed to consider the joint resolution in the 
                House. All points of order against the motion are 
                waived. Such a motion shall not be in order after the 
                House has disposed of a motion to proceed on a joint 
                resolution with regard to the same certification. The 
                previous question shall be considered as ordered on the 
                motion to its adoption without intervening motion. The 
                motion shall not be debatable. A motion to reconsider 
                the vote by which the motion is disposed of shall not 
                be in order.
                    (C) Consideration.--The joint resolution shall be 
                considered as read. All points of order against the 
                joint resolution and against its consideration are 
                waived. The previous question shall be considered as 
                ordered on the joint resolution to final passage 
                without intervening motion except two hours of debate 
                equally divided and controlled by the sponsor of the 
                joint resolution (or a designee) and an opponent. A 
                motion to reconsider the vote on passage of the joint 
                resolution shall not be in order.
            (5) Consideration in the senate.--
                    (A) Committee referral.--A joint resolution of 
                disapproval introduced in the Senate shall be referred 
                to the Committee on Finance.
                    (B) Reporting and discharge.--If the Committee on 
                Finance has not reported such joint resolution of 
                disapproval within 10 days on which the Senate is in 
                session after the date of referral of such joint 
                resolution, that committee shall be discharged from 
                further consideration of such joint resolution and the 
                joint resolution shall be placed on the appropriate 
                calendar.
                    (C) Motion to proceed.--Notwithstanding Rule XXII 
                of the Standing Rules of the Senate, it is in order at 
                any time after the Committee on Finance reports the 
                joint resolution of disapproval to the Senate or has 
                been discharged from its consideration (even though a 
                previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed 
                to) to move to proceed to the consideration of the 
                joint resolution, and all points of order against the 
                joint resolution (and against consideration of the 
                joint resolution) shall be waived. The motion to 
                proceed is not debatable. The motion is not subject to 
                a motion to postpone. A motion to reconsider the vote 
                by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to shall 
                not be in order. If a motion to proceed to the 
                consideration of the joint resolution of disapproval is 
                agreed to, the joint resolution shall remain the 
                unfinished business until disposed of.
                    (D) Debate.--Debate on the joint resolution of 
                disapproval, and on all debatable motions and appeals 
                in connection therewith, shall be limited to not more 
                than 10 hours, which shall be divided equally between 
                the majority and minority leaders or their designees. A 
                motion to further limit debate is in order and not 
                debatable. An amendment to, or a motion to postpone, or 
                a motion to proceed to the consideration of other 
                business, or a motion to recommit the joint resolution 
                of disapproval is not in order.
                    (E) Vote on passage.--The vote on passage shall 
                occur immediately following the conclusion of the 
                debate on the joint resolution of disapproval and a 
                single quorum call at the conclusion of the debate, if 
                requested in accordance with the rules of the Senate.
                    (F) Rules of the chair on procedure.--Appeals from 
                the decisions of the Chair relating to the application 
                of the rules of the Senate, as the case may be, to the 
                procedure relating to the joint resolution of 
                disapproval shall be decided without debate.
                    (G) Consideration of veto messages.--Debate in the 
                Senate of any veto message with respect to the joint 
                resolution of disapproval, including all debatable 
                motions and appeals in connection with such joint 
                resolution, shall be limited to 10 hours, to be equally 
                divided between, and controlled by, the majority leader 
                and the minority leader or their designees.
            (6) Procedures in the senate.--Except as otherwise provided 
        in this subsection, the following procedures shall apply in the 
        Senate to a joint resolution of disapproval:
                    (A) Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a joint 
                resolution of disapproval that has passed the House of 
                Representatives shall, when received in the Senate, be 
                referred to the Committee on Finance for consideration 
                in accordance with this subsection.
                    (B) If a joint resolution of disapproval was 
                introduced in the Senate before receipt of a joint 
                resolution of disapproval that has passed the House of 
                Representatives, the joint resolution from the House of 
                Representatives shall, when received in the Senate, be 
                placed on the calendar. If this subparagraph applies, 
                the procedures in the Senate with respect to a joint 
                resolution of disapproval introduced in the Senate that 
                contains the identical matter as the joint resolution 
                of disapproval that passed the House of Representatives 
                shall be the same as if no joint resolution of 
                disapproval had been received from the House of 
                Representatives, except that the vote on passage in the 
                Senate shall be on the joint resolution of disapproval 
                that passed the House of Representatives.
            (7) Rules of the house of representatives and the senate.--
        This subsection is enacted by Congress--
                    (A) as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the 
                Senate and the House of Representatives, respectively, 
                and as such is deemed a part of the rules of each 
                House, respectively, but applicable only with respect 
                to the procedure to be followed in that House in the 
                case of a joint resolution of disapproval, and 
                supersedes other rules only to the extent that it is 
                inconsistent with such rules; and
                    (B) with full recognition of the constitutional 
                right of either House to change the rules (so far as 
                relating to the procedure of that House) at any time, 
                in the same manner, and to the same extent as in the 
                case of any other rule of that House.

            Attest:

                                                             Secretary.
117th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                               H.R. 6968

_______________________________________________________________________

                               AMENDMENT
