
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[H.R. 3197 Enrolled Bill (ENR)]

        H.R.3197

                    One Hundred Seventeenth Congress

                                 of the

                        United States of America


                          AT THE SECOND SESSION

           Begun and held at the City of Washington on Monday,
          the third day of January, two thousand and twenty-two


                                 An Act


 
To direct the Secretary of the Interior to convey to the City of Eunice, 
  Louisiana, certain Federal land in Louisiana, and for other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,
SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.
    This Act may be cited as the ``Save the Liberty Theatre Act of 
2021''.
SEC. 2. DEFINITIONS.
    In this Act:
        (1) City.--The term ``City'' means the City of Eunice, 
    Louisiana.
        (2) Map.--The term ``map'' means the map entitled ``Jean 
    Lafitte National Historical Park and Preserve, Proposed Boundary 
    Revision and Disposal'', numbered 467/168813, and dated December 
    2020.
        (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary of 
    the Interior.
SEC. 3. LAND CONVEYANCE.
    (a) Conveyance Authority.--The Secretary shall convey to the City, 
by quitclaim deed and without consideration, all right, title, and 
interest of the United States in and to the parcels of land described 
in subsection (b).
    (b) Description of Land.--The parcels of land referred to in 
subsection (a) are Lots 5 and 6, less the North 27 feet of Lot 5, Block 
22, of the Original Townsite of Eunice, generally depicted as 
``Proposed Disposal Area'' on the map.
    (c) Availability of Map.--The map shall be on file and available 
for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park 
Service.
SEC. 4. BOUNDARY ADJUSTMENTS.
    Upon the conveyance to the City of the land described in section 
3(b), the boundary of the Jean Lafitte National Historical Park and 
Preserve shall be adjusted to exclude--
        (1) the conveyed land; and
        (2) Lots 7 and 8 of the Original Townsite of Eunice generally 
    depicted as ``Non-NPS in Current Boundary'' on the map.

                               Speaker of the House of Representatives.

                            Vice President of the United States and    
                                               President of the Senate.
