
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 3946 Introduced in Senate (IS)]








117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 3946

To reauthorize the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2017, and for 
                            other purposes.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             March 29, 2022

  Mr. Cornyn (for himself and Ms. Klobuchar) introduced the following 
    bill; which was read twice and referred to the Committee on the 
                               Judiciary

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
To reauthorize the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2017, and for 
                            other purposes.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Abolish Human Trafficking 
Reauthorization Act of 2022''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
TITLE I--GRANTS RELATING TO HUMAN TRAFFICKING PREVENTION AND ASSISTANCE 
                    FOR VICTIMS OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING

Sec. 101. Human trafficking prevention education grants.
Sec. 102. Protecting children abroad.
Sec. 103. Ensuring protection and confidentiality for human trafficking 
                            survivors.
Sec. 104. Temporary waivers.
Sec. 105. Grants for State improvements.
Sec. 106. Additional reauthorization.
         TITLE II--COMPENSATION OF VICTIMS OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING

Sec. 201. Bankruptcy.
                 TITLE III--CYBER HARASSMENT PREVENTION

                   Subtitle A--Cybercrime Statistics

Sec. 311. National strategy, classification, and reporting on 
                            cybercrime.
           Subtitle B--Prioritizing Online Threat Enforcement

Sec. 321. Improved investigative and forensic resources for enforcement 
                            of laws related to cybercrimes against 
                            individuals.
Sec. 322. Report.
Sec. 323. Training and technical assistance for States.
   TITLE IV--OTHER FEDERAL IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO HUMAN TRAFFICKING

Sec. 401. Youthful offenders.
Sec. 402. Prevention research.
Sec. 403. Reduction of barriers to obtain identity documents for 
                            trafficking survivors.
Sec. 404. Cybercrime.
Sec. 405. Office of Counter-Trafficking.
Sec. 406. Tip organizations.
Sec. 407. Data collection.
Sec. 408. Cumulative biennial report on data collection and statistics.
Sec. 409. Forced labor requirements.
Sec. 410. Homeland Security VAP.
Sec. 411. Multidisciplinary teams.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Computer.--The term ``computer'' includes a computer 
        network and any interactive electronic device.
            (2) Cybercrime against individuals.--The term ``cybercrime 
        against individuals'' means a Federal, State, or local criminal 
        offense that involves the use of a computer to cause personal 
        harm to an individual, such as the use of a computer to harass, 
        threaten, stalk, extort, coerce, cause fear, intimidate, 
        without consent distribute intimate images of, or violate the 
        privacy of, an individual, except that--
                    (A) use of a computer need not be an element of the 
                offense; and
                    (B) the term does not include the use of a computer 
                to cause harm to a commercial entity, government 
                agency, or non-natural person.
            (3) Homeless youth.--The term ``homeless youth'' has the 
        meaning given the term ``homeless children and youths'' in 
        section 725 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 
        U.S.C. 11434a).
            (4) Labor trafficking.--The term ``labor trafficking'' has 
        the meaning given that term in section 106(b)(2)(A) of the 
        Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
        7104(b)(2)(A)).
            (5) Sex trafficking.--The term ``sex trafficking'' has the 
        meaning given that term in section 103 of the Trafficking 
        Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102).
            (6) Survivor of human trafficking.--The term ``survivor of 
        human trafficking'' means a survivor of human trafficking as 
        defined in section 103 of the Trafficking Victims Protection 
        Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102).

TITLE I--GRANTS RELATING TO HUMAN TRAFFICKING PREVENTION AND ASSISTANCE 
                    FOR VICTIMS OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING

SEC. 101. HUMAN TRAFFICKING PREVENTION EDUCATION GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--Section 106(b)(2) of the Victims of Trafficking 
and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7104(b)(2)) is amended--
            (1) by amending the paragraph heading to read as follows: 
        ``Frederick douglass human trafficking prevention education 
        grants'';
            (2) in subparagraph (A)--
                    (A) in clause (iii), by striking ``103(9)(B)'' and 
                inserting ``103(11)(B)''; and
                    (B) in clause (v), by striking ``103(9)(A)'' and 
                inserting ``103(12)'';
            (3) in subparagraph (B)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding clause (i), by 
                inserting ``, under a program to be known as `Frederick 
                Douglass Human Trafficking Prevention Education 
                Grants','' after ``may award grants''; and
                    (B) in clause (ii), by inserting ``, linguistically 
                accessible, and culturally responsive'' after ``age-
                appropriate'';
            (4) in subparagraph (C), by amending the subparagraph 
        heading to read as follows: ``Program requirements for 
        frederick douglass human trafficking prevention education 
        grants''; and
            (5) by striking subparagraph (D) and inserting the 
        following:
                    ``(D) Priority.--In awarding Frederick Douglass 
                Human Trafficking Prevention Education Grants under 
                this paragraph, the Secretary of Health and Human 
                Services shall give priority to local educational 
                agencies that--
                            ``(i) serve a high-intensity child sex or 
                        labor trafficking area;
                            ``(ii) partner with nonprofit organizations 
                        specializing in human trafficking prevention 
                        education, law enforcement, and technology or 
                        social media companies to assist in training 
                        efforts to protect children from sexual 
                        exploitation and abuse, including grooming, 
                        child sex or labor trafficking, child sexual 
                        abuse materials, and human trafficking 
                        transmitted through technology;
                            ``(iii) consult with the Secretary of 
                        Education, the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
                        Development, the Secretary of Labor, the 
                        Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the 
                        Attorney General, as appropriate, to identify 
                        the geographic areas in the United States with 
                        the highest prevalence of populations that are 
                        at high risk for being trafficked, including 
                        children who are members of a racial or ethnic 
                        minority, homeless youth, foster youth, youth 
                        involved in the child welfare system, and 
                        children and youth who have run away from home 
                        or are in an out-of-home placement; or
                            ``(iv) consult with the Secretary of 
                        Education, the Secretary of Housing and Urban 
                        Development, the Secretary of Labor, the 
                        Secretary of Health and Human Services, and the 
                        Attorney General, as appropriate, to identify 
                        the geographic areas in the United States with 
                        the highest levels of child sex trafficking and 
                        child labor trafficking.
                    ``(E) Criteria for selection.--Grantees under this 
                paragraph should be selected based on their 
                demonstrated ability--
                            ``(i) to engage stakeholders, including 
                        survivors of human trafficking, and Federal, 
                        State, Tribal, and local partners, to develop 
                        programs described in subparagraph (B);
                            ``(ii) to train the trainers, parents or 
                        guardians, elementary and secondary school 
                        students, teachers, and other school personnel, 
                        particularly specialized instructional support 
                        personnel, such as a scientifically validated 
                        brief screening tool to quickly detect and 
                        serve trafficking survivors in a linguistically 
                        accessible, culturally responsive, age-
                        appropriate and trauma-informed fashion; and
                            ``(iii) to create a scalable, repeatable 
                        program that uses proven and tested best 
                        practices by researchers and employs 
                        appropriate technological tools and 
                        methodologies, including linguistically 
                        accessible, culturally responsive, age 
                        appropriate and trauma-informed approach and 
                        measurement and training curricula adapted for 
                        trainers, guardians, educators, and elementary 
                        and secondary school students, to prevent child 
                        sexual exploitation and abuse, including 
                        grooming, child labor trafficking, the creation 
                        or distribution of child sexual abuse 
                        materials, and trafficking transmitted through 
                        technology.
                    ``(F) Data collection.--The Secretary of Health and 
                Human Services and the Secretary of Labor shall consult 
                with the Secretary of Education to determine the 
                appropriate demographics of the recipients or of 
                students at risk of being trafficked or exploited, to 
                be collected and reported with respect to grants 
                awarded under this paragraph.
                    ``(G) Report.--Not later than 18 months after the 
                date of the enactment of this Act, and annually 
                thereafter, the Secretary of Health and Human Services 
                shall submit a report to the Committee on Health, 
                Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, the 
                Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate, the Committee 
                on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives, 
                the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of 
                Representatives, and the Committee on the Judiciary of 
                the House of Representatives that identifies--
                            ``(i) the total number of entities that 
                        received a Frederick Douglass Human Trafficking 
                        Prevention Education Grant during the preceding 
                        year;
                            ``(ii) the total number of partnerships or 
                        consultants that included survivors, nonprofit 
                        organizations specialized in human trafficking 
                        prevention education, law enforcement, or 
                        technology or social media companies;
                            ``(iii) the total number of elementary and 
                        secondary schools that established and 
                        implemented proper protocols and procedures 
                        through programs developed using grants 
                        received under this paragraph;
                            ``(iv) the total number and geographic 
                        distribution of trainers, guardians, students, 
                        teachers, and other school personnel trained 
                        assisted through grants received under this 
                        paragraph;
                            ``(v) the results of pre-training and post-
                        training surveys to gauge trainees' increased 
                        understanding of--
                                    ``(I) the scope and signs of child 
                                trafficking and child sexual 
                                exploitation and abuse;
                                    ``(II) how to interact with 
                                potential victims and survivors of 
                                child trafficking and child sexual 
                                exploitation and abuse using age-
                                appropriate, culturally and 
                                linguistically responsive, and trauma-
                                informed approaches; and
                                    ``(III) the manner in which to 
                                respond to potential child trafficking 
                                and child sexual exploitation and 
                                abuse;
                            ``(vi) the number of potential victims and 
                        survivors of child trafficking and child sexual 
                        exploitation and abuse identified and served by 
                        grantees under this paragraph, excluding any 
                        individually identifiable information about 
                        such children, in full compliance with all 
                        applicable privacy laws and regulations;
                            ``(vii) the number of students in 
                        elementary or secondary school identified by 
                        grantees under this paragraph as being at risk 
                        of being trafficked or sexually exploited and 
                        abused, excluding any individually identifiable 
                        information about such students;
                            ``(viii) the demographic characteristics of 
                        child trafficking survivors and victims, 
                        sexually exploited and abused children, and 
                        students at risk of being trafficked or 
                        sexually exploited and abused described in 
                        clauses (vi) and (vii), excluding any 
                        individually identifiable information about 
                        such children, in full compliance with the 
                        standards established by the Department of 
                        Education National Center for Education 
                        Statistics with respect to at-risk students; 
                        and
                            ``(ix) any service gaps and best practices 
                        identified by grantees under this paragraph.''.
    (b) Conforming Amendment.--Section 107(c)(4)(A) of the Victims of 
Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
7105(c)(4)(A)) is amended by inserting ``in order to fulfill the 
purposes described in section 111 of the Violence Against Women and 
Department of Justice Reauthorization Act of 2005 (34 U.S.C. 20708)'' 
before the period at the end.

SEC. 102. PROTECTING CHILDREN ABROAD.

    Section 240(c)(1) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims 
Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (22 U.S.C. 212b(c)(1)) is 
amended to read as follows:
            ``(1) the term `covered sex offender' means an individual 
        who--
                    ``(A) is required to register, based on an offense 
                against a minor, under section 113 of the Sex Offender 
                Registration and Notification Act (34 U.S.C. 20913); or
                    ``(B) resides outside the United States, or applies 
                for or seeks to renew a passport outside the United 
                States, and would be required to register, based on an 
                offense against a minor, under section 113 of the Sex 
                Offender Registration and Notification Act, if the 
                individual returned to the United States.''.

SEC. 103. ENSURING PROTECTION AND CONFIDENTIALITY FOR HUMAN TRAFFICKING 
              SURVIVORS.

    (a) In General.--In order to ensure the safety of human trafficking 
survivors and their families--
            (1) a grantee or subgrantee receiving Federal funds under a 
        grant shall protect the confidentiality and privacy of 
        survivors of human trafficking receiving services from the 
        grantee or subgrantee; and
            (2) each entity applying to receive Federal funds in the 
        form of a grant shall submit, in conjunction with the 
        application for the grant, a privacy policy for human 
        trafficking survivors and their families that is in accordance 
        with the requirements under this section.
    (b) Nondisclosure.--Subject to subsections (c), (d), and (e), a 
grantee or subgrantee shall agree, as a condition of receiving Federal 
funds, to not--
            (1) disclose, reveal, or release any personally identifying 
        information or individual information collected in connection 
        with services requested, used, or denied through a program of 
        the grantee or subgrantee, regardless of whether the 
        information has been encoded, encrypted, hashed, or otherwise 
        protected; or
            (2) disclose, reveal, or release individual client 
        information regarding an individual who requested, used, or was 
        denied services through a program of the grantee or subgrantee 
        without the informed, written, and reasonably time-limited 
        consent of the individual about whom information is sought, 
        whether in connection with the program for which the Federal 
        funds were received or another Federal, State, Tribal, or 
        territorial grant program.
    (c) Exceptions Relating to Minors.--
            (1) In general.--For purposes of subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) the informed, written, and reasonably time-
                limited consent described in such subsection--
                            (i) in the case of an unemancipated minor 
                        shall be obtained from both the minor and a 
                        parent or guardian; and
                            (ii) in the case of person with a legal 
                        incapacity, shall be obtained from both the 
                        person and a court-appointed guardian; and
                    (B) such consent may not be given by the alleged or 
                convicted trafficker of the minor or person with a 
                legal incapacity, or the alleged or convicted 
                trafficker of a parent or legal guardian of the minor 
                or person with a legal incapacity.
            (2) Waiver of parental consent.--Notwithstanding the 
        prohibition under subsection (b)(2), if a minor or a person 
        with a legally incapacity is permitted by law to receive 
        services without the consent of a parent or guardian, the minor 
        or person may consent to the disclosure, revealing, or release 
        of information without obtaining additional consent in 
        accordance with paragraph (1) of this subsection.
    (d) Compelled Release.--If a grantee or subgrantee is compelled by 
a statutory or court mandate to disclose, reveal, or release 
information described in subsection (b), the grantee or subgrantee 
shall--
            (1) make reasonable attempts to provide notice to survivors 
        affected by the disclosure, revealing, or release of the 
        information; and
            (2) take steps necessary to protect the privacy and safety 
        of the persons affected by the disclosure, revealing, or 
        release of the information.
    (e) Information Sharing.--
            (1) In general.--A grantee or subgrantee may share--
                    (A) nonpersonally identifying data in the aggregate 
                regarding services to clients of the grantee or 
                subgrantee and nonpersonally identifying demographic 
                information, in order to identify underserved 
                populations and comply with Federal, State, Tribal, or 
                territorial reporting, evaluation, or data collection 
                requirements;
                    (B) court-generated information and law 
                enforcement-generated information contained in secure, 
                governmental registries for protection order 
                enforcement purposes;
                    (C) law enforcement-generated and prosecution-
                generated information necessary for law enforcement and 
                prosecution purposes; and
                    (D) information necessary for the functioning of a 
                multidisciplinary team.
            (2) Prohibition.--Under no circumstances may a grantee or 
        subgrantee--
                    (A) require a human trafficking survivor to provide 
                consent to disclose, reveal, or release his or her 
                personally identifying information as a condition of 
                eligibility for the services provided by the grantee or 
                subgrantee; or
                    (B) share any personally identifying information of 
                a human trafficking survivor in order to comply with 
                Federal, State, Tribal, or territorial reporting, 
                evaluation, or data collection requirements, whether in 
                connection with the program for which the Federal funds 
                were received or another Federal, State, Tribal, or 
                territorial grant program.
    (f) Statutorily Mandated Reports of Human Trafficking, 
Exploitation, Abuse or Neglect.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to prohibit a grantee or subgrantee from reporting suspected 
human trafficking, exploitation, abuse or neglect, as those terms are 
defined under, and as such reporting is specifically mandated by, 
Federal, State, local, or Tribal laws.

SEC. 104. TEMPORARY WAIVERS.

    (a) Waiver of Match Requirements.--The non-Federal match 
requirements set forth in subsection (g) of section 202 of the 
Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 (34 U.S.C. 
20702) shall not apply to grants under such section during fiscal year 
2023.
    (b) Waiver of Federal Share Limitations.--The Federal share 
limitations set forth in subsections (b)(2)(C) and (f)(3)(B) of section 
107 of the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7105) 
shall not apply to grants under subsections (b)(2) and (f)(3) of such 
section during fiscal year 2023.

SEC. 105. GRANTS FOR STATE IMPROVEMENTS.

    (a) In General.--Title II of the Trafficking Victims Protection 
Reauthorization Act of 2005 (34 U.S.C. 20701 et seq.) is amended by 
inserting after section 204 the following:

``SEC. 204A. ENHANCING THE ABILITY OF STATE, LOCAL, AND TRIBAL CHILD 
              WELFARE AGENCIES TO IDENTIFY AND RESPOND TO CHILDREN WHO 
              ARE, OR ARE AT RISK OF BEING, VICTIMS OF TRAFFICKING.

    ``(a) Grants To Enhance Child Welfare Services.--The Secretary of 
Health and Human Services may make grants to eligible States to 
develop, improve, or expand programs that assist State, local, or 
Tribal child welfare agencies with identifying and responding to--
            ``(1) children considered victims of `child abuse and 
        neglect' and of `sexual abuse' under the application of section 
        111(b)(1) of the Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act (42 
        U.S.C. 5106g(b)(1)) because of being identified as being a 
        victim or at risk of being a victim of sex trafficking; and
            ``(2) children over whom such agencies have responsibility 
        for placement, care, or supervision and for whom there is 
        reasonable cause to believe are, or are at risk of being a 
        victim of 1 or more severe forms of trafficking in persons.
    ``(b) Definitions.--In this section:
            ``(1) Child.--The term `child' means an individual who has 
        not attained 18 years of age or such older age as the State has 
        elected under section 475(8) of the Social Security Act (42 
        U.S.C. 675(8)). At the option of an eligible State, such term 
        may include an individual who has not attained 26 years of age.
            ``(2) Eligible state.--The term `eligible State' means a 
        State that meets 1 or more of the following criteria:
                    ``(A) Elimination of third party control 
                requirement.--The State has eliminated any requirement 
                relating to identification of a controlling third party 
                who causes a child to engage in a commercial sex act in 
                order for the child to be considered a victim of 1 or 
                more severe forms of trafficking in persons, or a 
                victim of trafficking, for purposes of accessing child 
                welfare services and care.
                    ``(B) Application of standard for human 
                trafficking.--The State considers a child to be a 
                victim of trafficking if the individual is a victim of 
                a severe form of trafficking in persons as described in 
                subparagraph (A) of section 103(11) of the Trafficking 
                Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102(11)).
                    ``(C) Development and implementation of state child 
                welfare plan protocols.--The State agency responsible 
                for administering the State plan for foster care and 
                adoption assistance under part E of title IV of the 
                Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 670 et seq.) has 
                developed and is implementing protocols that meet the 
                following reporting requirements:
                            ``(i) The requirement to report 
                        immediately, and in no case later than 24 hours 
                        after receiving, information on children or 
                        youth who have been identified as being a 
                        victim of sex trafficking to law enforcement 
                        authorities under paragraph (34)(A) of section 
                        471(a) of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 
                        671(a)).
                            ``(ii) The requirement to report 
                        immediately, and in no case later than 24 hours 
                        after receiving, information on missing or 
                        abducted children or youth to law enforcement 
                        authorities, including children or youth 
                        classified as `runaways', for entry into the 
                        National Crime Information Center (NCIC) 
                        database of the Federal Bureau of 
                        Investigation, and to the National Center for 
                        Missing and Exploited Children, under paragraph 
                        (35)(B) of such section.
                            ``(iii) The requirement to report to the 
                        Secretary of Health and Human Services the 
                        total number of children and youth who are 
                        victims of sex trafficking under paragraph 
                        (34)(B) of such section.
                    ``(D) Trafficking-specific protocol.--The State has 
                developed and implemented a specialized protocol for 
                responding when victims of trafficking are exploited by 
                a third party trafficker to ensure the response focuses 
                on the child's specific safety needs as a victim of 
                trafficking, and that includes the development and use 
                of an alternative mechanism for investigating and 
                responding to cases of child sex trafficking in which 
                the alleged offender is not the child's parent or 
                caregiver without utilizing existing processes for 
                investigating and responding to other forms of child 
                abuse or neglect or requiring the filing of an abuse or 
                neglect petition.
            ``(3) State.--The term `State' means each of the 50 States, 
        the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the 
        United States Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, and the 
        Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. Such term 
        includes an Indian tribe, tribal organization, or tribal 
        consortium with a plan approved under section 479B of the 
        Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 679c), or which is receiving 
        funding to provide foster care under part E of title IV of such 
        Act pursuant to a cooperative agreement or contract with a 
        State.
            ``(4) Other terms.--The terms `commercial sex act', `severe 
        forms of trafficking in persons', `sex trafficking', `victim of 
        a severe form of trafficking', and `victim of trafficking' have 
        the meanings given those terms in section 103 of the 
        Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102).''.
    (b) Funding.--Section 113(b) of the Trafficking Victims Protection 
Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7110(b)) is amended by adding at the end the 
following:
            ``(3) Grants for state improvements.--To carry out the 
        purposes of section 204A of the Trafficking Victims Protection 
        Reauthorization Act of 2005, there are authorized to be 
        appropriated $8,000,000 to the Secretary of Health and Human 
        Services for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2027.''.
    (c) Sense of Congress Regarding Health Care Professionals and 
Social Service Providers.--It is the sense of Congress that State and 
local licensing boards throughout the United States should facilitate 
access for health care and behavioral health care practitioners and 
social service providers, as a condition of receiving new or renewal 
licensure, to training guided by the Department of Health and Human 
Service's Core Competencies for Human Trafficking Response in Health 
Care and Behavioral Health Systems on--
            (1) the scope and signs of human trafficking and child 
        sexual exploitation and abuse that present in the applicable 
        health care, behavioral health, or social services settings;
            (2) how to interact with potential victims of trafficking 
        (as defined in section 103 of the Trafficking Victims 
        Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7102)) and with trafficking 
        survivors, using an age-appropriate, gender-responsive, 
        culturally and linguistically appropriate, and trauma-informed 
        approach; and
            (3) the manner in which to respond to potential victims and 
        to survivors of human trafficking (as defined in section 103 of 
        the Trafficking Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 
        7102)) or child sexual exploitation and abuse.

SEC. 106. ADDITIONAL REAUTHORIZATION.

    (a) Airport Personnel Training To Identify and Report Human 
Trafficking Victims.--Section 303 of the Frederick Douglass Trafficking 
Victims Prevention and Protection Reauthorization Act of 2018 (Public 
Law 115-425; 132 Stat. 5488) is amended by striking ``2018 through 
2021'' and inserting ``2021 through 2027''.
    (b) HERO Corps Hiring.--Section 890A(g)(2) of the Homeland Security 
Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 473(g)(2)) is amended by striking ``2019 through 
2022'' and inserting ``2022 through 2027''.
    (c) Reauthorizing the Special Assessment and Ensuring Full Funding 
for the Domestic Trafficking Victims' Fund.--Section 3014 of title 18, 
United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subsection (a), in the matter preceding paragraph 
        (1), by striking ``and ending on September 11, 2022''; and
            (2) in subsection (e)(1)--
                    (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by 
                striking ``2023'' and inserting ``2027'';
                    (B) in subparagraph (A), by striking ``(42 U.S.C. 
                14044c)'' and inserting ``(34 U.S.C. 20705)'';
                    (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking ``(42 U.S.C. 
                13002(b))'' and inserting ``(34 U.S.C. 20304)''; and
                    (D) in subparagraph (D), by striking ``(42 U.S.C. 
                17616)'' and inserting ``(34 U.S.C. 21116)''.
    (d) Extension of Anti-Trafficking Grant Programs.--The Trafficking 
Victims Protection Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7101 et seq.) is amended--
            (1) in section 112A(b)(4) (22 U.S.C. 7109a(b)(4)), by 
        striking ``2018 through 2021'' and inserting ``2022 through 
        2027'';
            (2) in section 112B(d) (22 U.S.C. 7109b(d)) is amended by 
        striking ``2008 through 2011'' and inserting ``2022 through 
        2027''; and
            (3) in section 113 (22 U.S.C. 7110)--
                    (A) in subsection (d)--
                            (i) in paragraph (1), by striking ``2018 
                        through 2021'' and inserting ``2022 through 
                        2027''; and
                            (ii) in paragraph (3), by striking ``2018 
                        through 2021'' and inserting ``2022 through 
                        2027'';
                    (B) in subsection (e)(3), by striking ``2008 
                through 2011'' and inserting ``2022 through 2027''; and
                    (C) in subsection (f), by striking ``2018 through 
                2021..'' and inserting ``2022 through 2027.''.

         TITLE II--COMPENSATION OF VICTIMS OF HUMAN TRAFFICKING

SEC. 201. BANKRUPTCY.

    Section 523(a) of title 11, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in paragraph (18), by striking ``or'' at the end;
            (2) in paragraph (19), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; or''; and
            (3) by inserting after paragraph (19) the following:
    ``(20) for injury to an individual by the debtor relating to a 
violation of chapter 77 of title 18, including injury caused by an 
instance in which the debtor knowingly benefitted financially, or by 
receiving anything of value, from participation in a venture that the 
debtor knew or should have known engaged in an act in violation of 
chapter 77 of title 18.''.

                 TITLE III--CYBER HARASSMENT PREVENTION

                   Subtitle A--Cybercrime Statistics

SEC. 311. NATIONAL STRATEGY, CLASSIFICATION, AND REPORTING ON 
              CYBERCRIME.

    (a) National Strategy.--The Attorney General, in consultation with 
the Secretary of Homeland Security, shall develop a national strategy 
to--
            (1) reduce the incidence of cybercrimes against 
        individuals;
            (2) coordinate investigations of cybercrimes against 
        individuals by Federal law enforcement agencies; and
            (3) increase the number of Federal prosecutions of 
        cybercrimes against individuals.
    (b) Classification of Cybercrimes Against Individuals for Purposes 
of Crime Reports.--In accordance with the authority of the Attorney 
General under section 534 of title 28, United States Code, the Director 
of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall--
            (1) design and create within the Uniform Crime Reports a 
        category for offenses that constitute cybercrimes against 
        individuals;
            (2) to the extent feasible, within the category established 
        under paragraph (1), establish subcategories for each type of 
        cybercrime against individuals that is an offense under Federal 
        or State law;
            (3) classify the category established under paragraph (1) 
        as a Part I crime in the Uniform Crime Reports; and
            (4) classify each type of cybercrime against individuals 
        that is an offense under Federal or State law as a Group A 
        offense for the purpose of the National Incident-Based 
        Reporting System.
    (c) Annual Summary.--The Attorney General shall publish an annual 
summary of the information reported in the Uniform Crime Reports and 
the National Incident-Based Reporting System relating to cybercrimes 
against individuals.

           Subtitle B--Prioritizing Online Threat Enforcement

SEC. 321. IMPROVED INVESTIGATIVE AND FORENSIC RESOURCES FOR ENFORCEMENT 
              OF LAWS RELATED TO CYBERCRIMES AGAINST INDIVIDUALS.

    Subject to the availability of appropriations to carry out this 
section, the Attorney General, in consultation with the Director of the 
Federal Bureau of Investigation and the Secretary of Homeland Security, 
including the Executive Associate Director of Homeland Security 
Investigations, shall, with respect to cybercrimes against 
individuals--
            (1) ensure that there are not less than 10 additional 
        operational agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation 
        designated to support the Criminal Division of the Department 
        of Justice in the investigation and coordination of cybercrimes 
        against individuals;
            (2) ensure that each office of a United States Attorney 
        designates at least 1 Assistant United States Attorney as 
        responsible for investigating and prosecuting cybercrimes 
        against individuals; and
            (3) ensure the implementation of a regular and 
        comprehensive training program--
                    (A) the purpose of which is to train agents of the 
                Federal Bureau of Investigation in the investigation 
                and prosecution of such crimes and the enforcement of 
                laws related to cybercrimes against individuals; and
                    (B) that includes relevant forensic training 
                related to investigating and prosecuting cybercrimes 
                against individuals.

SEC. 322. REPORT.

    (a) In General.--Not later than 1 year after the date on which the 
collection of statistical data under section 311 begins and once each 
year thereafter, the Director of the Office for Victims of Crime shall 
submit a report to the Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate and the 
Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives that 
addresses, to the extent data are available, the nature, extent, and 
amount of funding under the Victims of Crime Act of 1984 (34 U.S.C. 
20101 et seq.) for victims of cybercrimes against individuals.
    (b) Contents.--The report required under subsection (a) shall 
include--
            (1) an analysis of victims' assistance, victims' 
        compensation, and discretionary grants under which victims of 
        cybercrimes against individuals received assistance;
            (2) recommendations for improving services for victims of 
        cybercrimes against individuals; and
            (3) efforts by the Department of Justice to conduct 
        outreach to State and local law enforcement agencies on the 
        process for collaborating with the Federal Government for the 
        purpose of investigating and prosecuting interstate and 
        international cybercrime cases.

SEC. 323. TRAINING AND TECHNICAL ASSISTANCE FOR STATES.

    The Attorney General, in consultation with the Secretary of 
Homeland Security, the Director of the United States Secret Service, 
and nongovernmental and survivor stakeholders, shall create, compile, 
evaluate, and disseminate materials and information, and provide the 
necessary training and technical assistance, to assist States and units 
of local government in--
            (1) investigating, prosecuting, pursuing, preventing, 
        understanding, and mitigating the impact of--
                    (A) physical, sexual, and psychological abuse of 
                cybercrime victims, including victims of human 
                trafficking that is facilitated by interactive computer 
                services;
                    (B) exploitation of cybercrime victims; and
                    (C) neglect of cybercrime; and
            (2) assessing, addressing, and mitigating the physical and 
        psychological trauma to victims of cybercrime.

   TITLE IV--OTHER FEDERAL IMPROVEMENTS RELATING TO HUMAN TRAFFICKING

SEC. 401. YOUTHFUL OFFENDERS.

    (a) Sentencing Juvenile Victim Offenders Who Have Been Trafficked, 
Abused, or Assaulted.--
            (1) Sentencing juvenile victim offenders.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 3553 of title 18, United 
                States Code, is amended--
                            (i) by redesignating subsection (g) as 
                        subsection (i); and
                            (ii) by inserting after subsection (f) the 
                        following:
    ``(g) Sentencing Juvenile Victim Offenders.--
            ``(1) Statutory minimums.--In the case of a juvenile victim 
        offender, the court shall have the authority to impose a 
        sentence that is below a level established by statute as a 
        minimum sentence in recognition of the potential effect of 
        trauma on the offender's conduct, if the effect of trauma on 
        the offender's conduct is established by clear and convincing 
        evidence.
            ``(2) Suspension of sentence.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), in 
                the case of a juvenile offender, the court shall have 
                the authority to suspend any portion of an imposed 
                sentence.
                    ``(B) Limitation.--For an offense for which the 
                minimum sentence under the statute is not less than 10 
                years, the court may not suspend the sentence imposed 
                on a juvenile victim offender to be less than 3 years.
            ``(3) Detention.--A court may order that a juvenile victim 
        offender serve a sentence in a juvenile facility if--
                    ``(A) the court imposes a sentence below the level 
                established by statute as a minimum sentence under 
                paragraph (1) or suspends in whole or in part the 
                sentence imposed under paragraph (2); and
                    ``(B) the period of imprisonment imposed or that is 
                not suspended ends not later than the 21st birthday of 
                the juvenile victim offender.
            ``(4) Juvenile victim offender defined.--In this 
        subsection, the term `juvenile victim offender' means an 
        individual who--
                    ``(A) has not attained the age of 18 years; and
                    ``(B) has been convicted of a violent offense 
                against a person who the court finds, by clear and 
                convincing evidence, engaged in conduct against such 
                individual, not earlier than 1 year before such violent 
                offense, that is an offense under section 1591 or an 
                offense under chapter 71, 109A, 110, or 117.''.
                    (B) Application.--The amendments made by 
                subparagraph (A) shall apply to a conviction entered on 
                or after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Directive to sentencing commission.--Pursuant to its 
        authority under section 994(p) of title 28, United States Code, 
        and in accordance with this subsection, the United States 
        Sentencing Commission shall review its guidelines and its 
        policy statements with respect to juvenile victim offenders (as 
        defined in subsection (g) of section 3553 of title 18, United 
        States Code, as added by paragraph (1)) to ensure that the 
        guidelines and policy statements are consistent with the 
        amendments made by paragraph (1).
    (b) Sentencing Juvenile Offenders.--
            (1) Sentencing juvenile offenders.--
                    (A) In general.--Section 3553 of chapter 227 of 
                title 18, United States Code, is amended--
                            (i) in subsection (a)--
                                    (I) in paragraph (6), by striking 
                                ``and'' at the end;
                                    (II) in paragraph (7), by striking 
                                the period at the end and inserting ``; 
                                and''; and
                                    (III) by adding at the end the 
                                following:
            ``(8) in the case of a juvenile (as such term is defined in 
        section 5031), the diminished culpability of juveniles compared 
        to that of adults.''; and
                            (ii) by inserting after subsection (g), as 
                        added by subsection (b), the following:
    ``(h) Limitation on Statutory Minimum for Juvenile Offenders.--In 
the case of a juvenile (as such term is defined in section 5031), the 
court shall have the authority to impose a sentence that is 35 percent 
below a level established by statute as a minimum sentence so as to 
reflect the juvenile's age and prospect for rehabilitation.''.
                    (B) Application.--The amendments made by 
                subparagraph (A) shall apply to a conviction entered on 
                or after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (2) Directive to sentencing commission.--Pursuant to its 
        authority under section 994(p) of title 28, United States Code, 
        and in accordance with this subsection, the United States 
        Sentencing Commission shall review its guidelines and its 
        policy statements with respect to juveniles (as defined in 
        section 5031 of title 18, United States Code) to ensure that 
        the guidelines and policy statements are consistent with the 
        amendments made by paragraph (1).
    (c) Parole for Juveniles.--
            (1) In general.--Chapter 403 of title 18, United States 
        Code, is amended by inserting after section 5032 the following:
``Sec. 5032A. Modification of an imposed term of imprisonment for 
              violations of law committed prior to age 18
    ``(a) In General.--Notwithstanding any other provision of law, a 
court may reduce a term of imprisonment imposed upon a defendant 
convicted as an adult for an offense committed and completed before the 
defendant attained 18 years of age if--
            ``(1) the defendant has served not less than 20 years in 
        custody for the offense; and
            ``(2) the court finds, after considering the factors and 
        information set forth in subsection (c), that the defendant is 
        not a danger to the safety of any person or the community and 
        that the interests of justice warrant a sentence modification.
    ``(b) Supervised Release.--Any defendant whose sentence is reduced 
pursuant to subsection (a) shall be ordered to serve a period of 
supervised release of not less than 5 years following release from 
imprisonment. The conditions of supervised release and any modification 
or revocation of the term of supervised release shall be in accordance 
with section 3583.
    ``(c) Factors and Information To Be Considered in Determining 
Whether To Modify a Term of Imprisonment.--The court, in determining 
whether to reduce a term of imprisonment pursuant to subsection (a), 
shall consider--
            ``(1) the factors described in section 3553(a), including 
        the nature of the offense and the history and characteristics 
        of the defendant;
            ``(2) the age of the defendant at the time of the offense;
            ``(3) a report and recommendation of the Bureau of Prisons, 
        including information on whether the defendant has 
        substantially complied with the rules of each institution in 
        which the defendant has been confined and whether the defendant 
        has completed any educational, vocational, or other prison 
        program, where available;
            ``(4) a report and recommendation of the United States 
        attorney for any district in which an offense for which the 
        defendant is imprisoned was prosecuted;
            ``(5) whether the defendant has demonstrated maturity, 
        rehabilitation, and a fitness to reenter society sufficient to 
        justify a sentence reduction;
            ``(6) any statement, which may be presented orally or 
        otherwise, by any victim of an offense for which the defendant 
        is imprisoned or by a family member of the victim if the victim 
        is deceased;
            ``(7) any report from a physical, mental, or psychiatric 
        examination of the defendant conducted by a licensed health 
        care professional;
            ``(8) the family and community circumstances of the 
        defendant at the time of the offense, including any history of 
        abuse, trauma, or involvement in the child welfare system;
            ``(9) the extent of the role of the defendant in the 
        offense and whether, and to what extent, an adult was involved 
        in the offense;
            ``(10) any statement, which may be presented orally or in 
        writing, by a prosecutor or law enforcement officer who was 
        involved in the original investigation or criminal proceeding 
        for which the defendant is incarcerated;
            ``(11) the diminished culpability of juveniles as compared 
        to that of adults, and the hallmark features of youth, 
        including immaturity, impetuosity, and failure to appreciate 
        risks and consequences, which counsel against sentencing 
        juveniles to the otherwise applicable term of imprisonment; and
            ``(12) any other information the court determines relevant 
        to the decision of the court.
    ``(d) Limitation on Applications Pursuant to This Section.--
            ``(1) Second application.--Not earlier than 5 years after 
        the date on which an order entered by a court on an initial 
        application under this section becomes final, a court shall 
        entertain a second application by the same defendant under this 
        section.
            ``(2) Final application.--Not earlier than 5 years after 
        the date on which an order entered by a court on a second 
        application under paragraph (1) becomes final, a court shall 
        entertain a final application by the same defendant under this 
        section.
            ``(3) Prohibition.--A court may not entertain an 
        application filed after an application filed under paragraph 
        (2) by the same defendant.
    ``(e) Procedures.--
            ``(1) Notice.--The Bureau of Prisons shall provide written 
        notice of this section to--
                    ``(A) any defendant who has served not less than 19 
                years in prison for an offense committed and completed 
                before the defendant attained 18 years of age for which 
                the defendant was convicted as an adult; and
                    ``(B) the sentencing court, the United States 
                attorney, and the Federal Public Defender or Executive 
                Director of the Community Defender Organization for the 
                judicial district in which the sentence described in 
                subparagraph (A) was imposed.
            ``(2) Crime victims rights.--
                    ``(A) Notice.--Upon receiving notice under 
                paragraph (1), the United States attorney shall provide 
                any notifications required under section 3771.
                    ``(B) Victim services.--Victims notified under 
                subparagraph (A) shall be provided the same treatment 
                and services provided by the Department of Justice to 
                victims in similar criminal proceedings, and shall be 
                given notice of the availability of such treatment and 
                services when contacted under this section.
            ``(3) Application.--
                    ``(A) In general.--An application for a sentence 
                reduction under this section shall be filed as a motion 
                to reduce the sentence of the defendant and may include 
                affidavits or other written material.
                    ``(B) Requirement.--A motion to reduce a sentence 
                under this section shall be filed with the sentencing 
                court and a copy shall be served on the United States 
                attorney for the judicial district in which the 
                sentence was imposed.
            ``(4) Expanding the record; hearing.--
                    ``(A) Expanding the record.--After the filing of a 
                motion to reduce a sentence under this section, the 
                court may direct the parties to expand the record by 
                submitting additional written materials relating to the 
                motion.
                    ``(B) Hearing.--
                            ``(i) In general.--The court shall conduct 
                        a hearing on the motion, at which the defendant 
                        and counsel for the defendant shall be given 
                        the opportunity to be heard.
                            ``(ii) Evidence.--In a hearing under this 
                        section, the court may allow parties to present 
                        evidence.
                            ``(iii) Defendant's presence.--At a hearing 
                        under this section, the defendant shall be 
                        present unless the defendant waives the right 
                        to be present. The requirement under this 
                        clause may be satisfied by the defendant 
                        appearing by video teleconference.
                            ``(iv) Counsel.--A defendant who is unable 
                        to obtain counsel is entitled to have counsel 
                        appointed to represent the defendant for 
                        proceedings under this section, including any 
                        appeal, unless the defendant waives the right 
                        to counsel.
                            ``(v) Findings.--The court shall state in 
                        open court, and file in writing, the reasons 
                        for granting or denying a motion under this 
                        section.
                    ``(C) Appeal.--The Government or the defendant may 
                file a notice of appeal in the district court for 
                review of a final order under this section. The time 
                limit for filing such appeal shall be governed by rule 
                4(a) of the Federal Rules of Appellate Procedure.
    ``(f) Educational and Rehabilitative Programs.--A defendant who is 
convicted and sentenced as an adult for an offense committed and 
completed before the defendant attained 18 years of age may not be 
deprived of any educational, training, or rehabilitative program that 
is otherwise available to the general prison population.''.
            (2) Table of sections.--The table of sections for chapter 
        403 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
        after the item relating to section 5032 the following:

``5032A. Modification of an imposed term of imprisonment for violations 
                            of law committed prior to age 18.''.
            (3) Applicability.--The amendments made by this subsection 
        shall apply to any conviction entered before, on, or after the 
        date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 402. PREVENTION RESEARCH.

    (a) In General.--The Secretary of Health and Human Services 
(referred to in this section as the ``Secretary''), acting through the 
Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention and in 
coordination with the Department of Justice, the Department of Homeland 
Security, the Department of Housing and Urban Development, the 
Department of Labor, and the Department of State, including the Office 
to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons of the Department of 
State, shall develop a research agenda on primary prevention of human 
trafficking in the United States, in accordance with Federal law. Such 
research agenda shall include research to support effective screening 
tools and primary prevention programs, including education and 
prevention campaigns.
    (b) Consultation.--In developing the research agenda under 
subsection (a), the Secretary shall consult with a panel of service 
providers, university researchers, advocates, human trafficking 
prevention education experts, survivors of human trafficking, and 
community and faith-based organizations.
    (c) Report to Congress.--Not later than 1 year after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report 
that includes--
            (1) a list of members of the panel under subsection (b) and 
        the organization or institute each such member represents, if 
        any;
            (2) a description of the research agenda developed under 
        subsection (a) and the plan to implement that agenda;
            (3) recommendations for congressional priorities to assist 
        the Secretary in carrying out the agenda developed under 
        subsection (a), including by effectively advancing knowledge 
        about trafficking in persons in the United States and providing 
        the means by which to prevent or reduce both sex and labor 
        trafficking; and
            (4) recommendations for supporting State and local 
        practitioners.

SEC. 403. REDUCTION OF BARRIERS TO OBTAIN IDENTITY DOCUMENTS FOR 
              TRAFFICKING SURVIVORS.

    (a) Alternative Identity Documents Accepted.--A survivor of human 
trafficking or a homeless youth may provide to a Federal agency any of 
the following documents in lieu of a birth certificate or passport to 
prove identity, age, and residency of the survivor:
            (1) A school-issued document, including a school ID, school 
        record, or transcript.
            (2) A W-2 or a 1099 tax form.
            (3) A State or Federal court document.
            (4) A medical insurance policy identification card or 
        medical record.
            (5) A United States military ID or United States military 
        dependent ID.
            (6) An employee ID or other employee record.
            (7) A vehicle registration or title.
            (8) A Certificate of Degree of Indian Blood.
            (9) A State or local government ID.
            (10) A doctor or hospital bill.
            (11) A utility bill.
            (12) A consular ID card.
            (13) A paycheck or paycheck stub.
    (b) Minors.--A survivor of human trafficking who is a minor or a 
homeless youth shall not be required to obtain the consent or signature 
of the parent or guardian of the minor to receive from a Federal agency 
a copy of the government-issued identity card issued to the minor.
    (c) Fees.--Federal agencies shall not charge a survivor of human 
trafficking or a homeless youth a fee to obtain a copy of a government-
issued identity card.
    (d) Technical Assistance and Grants.--The Department of Justice is 
authorized to provide technical assistance and grants to States to 
encourage the States to remove existing barriers and support human 
trafficking survivors and homeless youth with access to personal 
identification documents by--
            (1) accepting from a survivor of human trafficking or a 
        homeless youth to prove identity, age, and residency in lieu of 
        a birth certificate or passport, a ``statement of identity, 
        residency, and date of birth'' from--
                    (A) the head, or the designee of the head, of a 
                human trafficking service provider funded by the 
                Department of Justice or the Department of Health and 
                Human Services;
                    (B) a social worker, attorney, or other direct 
                service worker at a human trafficking service provider 
                funded by the Department of Justice or the Department 
                of Health and Human Services;
                    (C) a liaison described in section 722(g)(1)(J)(ii) 
                of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act (42 
                U.S.C. 11432(g)(1)(J)(ii));
                    (D) the head, or the designee of the head, of a 
                shelter funded by the Department of Housing and Urban 
                Development;
                    (E) the head, or the designee of the head, of a 
                shelter funded by the Runaway and Homeless Youth Act 
                (34 U.S.C. 11201 et seq.);
                    (F) a local, State, Federal, or Tribal law 
                enforcement officer; or
                    (G) a local, State, Federal, or Tribal government 
                official with responsibility for issuing personal 
                identification documents;
            (2) removing any requirement that a survivor of human 
        trafficking who is a minor or a homeless youth be required to 
        obtain the consent or signature of the parent or guardian of 
        the minor to receive from a Federal agency a certification or a 
        copy of the birth record, government ID, or drivers' license of 
        the minor; or
            (3) preventing a survivor of human trafficking or homeless 
        youth from being charged a fee for copies of the birth record, 
        government-issued identity card, or drivers' license of the 
        survivor of human trafficking.

SEC. 404. CYBERCRIME.

    Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Attorney General 
and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall provide incentive pay, in 
an amount that is not more than 25 percent of the basic pay of the 
individual, to an individual appointed to a position in the Department 
of Justice or the Department of Homeland Security (including positions 
in Homeland Security Investigations), respectively, requiring 
significant cyber skills to aid in the protection of trafficking 
victims, prevention of trafficking in persons, or prosecution of buyers 
of and traffickers in persons, in accordance with the comparable level 
of the General Schedule.

SEC. 405. OFFICE OF COUNTER-TRAFFICKING.

    (a) In General.--Section 102 of title 49, United States Code, is 
amended--
            (1) by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (i); and
            (2) by inserting after subsection (g) the following:
    ``(h) Office of Counter-Trafficking.--
            ``(1) Establishment.--There is established, in the 
        Department, the Office of Counter-Trafficking (referred to in 
        this subsection as the `Office'), which shall plan, coordinate, 
        and implement department-wide counter-trafficking initiatives, 
        including efforts to combat sex and labor trafficking.
            ``(2) Functions.--The Office shall--
                    ``(A) collaborate with other entities of the 
                Department to articulate the vision and priorities for 
                anti-trafficking efforts, including grants;
                    ``(B) expand the Transportation Leaders Against 
                Human Trafficking initiative;
                    ``(C) facilitate stronger public-private 
                partnerships to combat human trafficking;
                    ``(D) develop and implement interagency counter-
                trafficking projects, including by coordinating with 
                the Department of Justice, the Department of Health and 
                Human Services, and the Department of Homeland 
                Security;
                    ``(E) create and oversee an online portal to permit 
                transportation stakeholders to track data on measurable 
                counter-trafficking initiatives; and
                    ``(F) coordinate with the Department of State to 
                establish transportation-based counter-trafficking 
                programs across North America and around the world.''.
    (b) Authorization of Appropriations.--There are authorized to be 
appropriated to the Office of Counter-Trafficking of the Department of 
Transportation $1,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2023 through 
2027, which shall be used--
            (1) to educate and train transportation personnel on how to 
        identify and stop human trafficking;
            (2) to raise awareness among transportation personnel and 
        the traveling public on recognizing and reporting human 
        trafficking;
            (3) to conduct research or collect data on trafficking 
        within the transportation sector; and
            (4) to provide grants to State, tribal, and local 
        governments, United States territories, transit agencies, port 
        authorities, metropolitan planning organizations, political 
        subdivisions of a State or local government, a collaboration 
        among any such entities, and qualified nonprofit organizations, 
        for the purposes of developing and supporting human trafficking 
        prevention programs.

SEC. 406. TIP ORGANIZATIONS.

    Section 524(c)(1) of title 28, United States Code, is amended--
            (1) in subparagraph (H), by striking ``and'' at the end;
            (2) in subparagraph (I), by striking the period at the end 
        and inserting ``; and''; and
            (3) by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:
            ``(J) at the discretion of the Attorney General, payments 
        to reimburse operating expenses and program costs incurred by 
        crime-tip organizations that--
                    ``(i) annually waive their qualification for--
                            ``(I) awards for information leading to 
                        forfeiture under subparagraph (C); and
                            ``(II) receiving payment from equitably 
                        shared forfeiture funds; and
                    ``(ii) offer rewards for information about 
                violations of Federal criminal laws prohibiting human 
                trafficking.''.

SEC. 407. DATA COLLECTION.

    (a) Disaggregated Data.--The Department of Justice shall collect 
and submit to Congress--
            (1) disaggregated data regarding the number of victims 
        trafficked by third parties and by family members;
            (2) disaggregated data regarding victims trafficked by 
        victim age; and
            (3) disaggregated data regarding victims trafficked by the 
        type of trafficking (labor, sex, labor and sex, or unknown).
    (b) Continued Presence Data.--
            (1) In general.--The data described in paragraph (2), 
        disaggregated by type of trafficking (labor, sex, labor and 
        sex, or unknown)--
                    (A) shall be included in the report required under 
                section 105(d)(7) of the Trafficking Victims Protection 
                Act of 2000 (22 U.S.C. 7103(d)(7));
                    (B) should be included in reports from any Federal, 
                State, Tribal, or local agency that receives Federal 
                counter trafficking in persons funding; and
                    (C) for data included under subparagraph (A) or 
                (B), shall include demographic characteristics of the 
                victim of trafficking, including age, sex, race, 
                ethnicity, and national origin.
            (2) Data described.--The data described in this paragraph 
        are the following:
                    (A)(i) The number of requests for continued 
                presence that were received from, or on behalf of, 
                potential trafficking victims.
                    (ii) For each request referred to in clause (i), 
                whether the request was filed or was not filed.
                    (iii) For each request that was filed, whether the 
                request was approved or denied.
                    (B) In each applicable case--
                            (i) the month and year when the continued 
                        presence request was filed;
                            (ii) if the continued presence request was 
                        not filed, the reasons for such failure to 
                        file; and
                            (iii) if the continued presence request was 
                        denied, the reasons for such denial.
                    (C) For each potential human trafficking case 
                described in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) whether or not an investigation was 
                        initiated into the case; and
                            (ii) if an investigation was not initiated, 
                        the reasons for such failure to investigate.
                    (D) The number of requests for T visa 
                certifications that were received from, or on behalf 
                of, potential trafficking victims and the outcomes of 
                such requests, indicating whether or not a T visa 
                certification was provided.
                    (E) In each applicable case--
                            (i) the month and year when the T visa 
                        certification request for approval was 
                        submitted; and
                            (ii) if such request was denied, the 
                        reasons for such denial.
                    (F) Whether an investigation was initiated into 
                each potential human trafficking case described in 
                subparagraph (D).

SEC. 408. CUMULATIVE BIENNIAL REPORT ON DATA COLLECTION AND STATISTICS.

    Not later than 280 days after the date of enactment of this Act, 
and every 2 years thereafter, the Attorney General and the Secretary of 
Health and Human Services shall each submit to the Committee on the 
Judiciary and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions 
of the Senate and the Committee on the Judiciary and the Committee on 
Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives the status of the 
required data collection and reporting requirements of the Attorney 
General and the Secretary, respectively, related to trafficking, which 
shall include the status of--
            (1) the study required under section 201(a)(1)(B)(ii) of 
        the Trafficking Victims Protection Reauthorization Act of 2005 
        (34 U.S.C. 20701(a)(1)(B)(ii));
            (2) the State reports required under section 237(b) of the 
        William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection 
        Reauthorization Act of 2008 (34 U.S.C. 41309(b)) to be included 
        in the Uniform Crime Reporting Program and the National 
        Incident-Based Reporting System;
            (3) the report required under section 237(c)(1)(A) of the 
        William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection 
        Reauthorization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-457; 122 Stat. 
        5084);
            (4) the report required under section 237(c)(1)(B) of the 
        William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection 
        Reauthorization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-457; 122 Stat. 
        5084);
            (5) the report required under section 237(c)(1)(C) of the 
        William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims Protection 
        Reauthorization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-457; 122 Stat. 
        5084); and
            (6) the comprehensive study required under section 
        237(c)(2) of the William Wilberforce Trafficking Victims 
        Protection Reauthorization Act of 2008 (Public Law 110-457; 122 
        Stat. 5085).

SEC. 409. FORCED LABOR REQUIREMENTS.

    (a) Department of Justice.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall establish a 
        team of not less than 10 agents within the Civil Rights Unit of 
        the Federal Bureau of Investigation to be assigned to 
        exclusively investigate labor trafficking.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out paragraph (1) $2,000,000 for 
        each of fiscal years 2022 to 2027, to remain available until 
        expended.
    (b) Department of Homeland Security.--
            (1) In general.--Not later than 2 years after the date of 
        enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall 
        establish a team of not less than 10 agents within the Center 
        for Countering Human Trafficking of the Department of Homeland 
        Security to be assigned to exclusively investigate labor 
        trafficking.
            (2) Authorization of appropriations.--There are authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out paragraph (1) $2,000,000 for 
        each of fiscal years 2022 to 2027, to remain available until 
        expended.

SEC. 410. HOMELAND SECURITY VAP.

    Section 442 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 (6 U.S.C. 252) is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Homeland Security Investigations Victim Assistance Program.--
            ``(1) In general.--There is established within Homeland 
        Security Investigations of U.S. Immigration and Customs 
        Enforcement a Victim Assistance Program.
            ``(2) Functions.--The Victim Assistance Program established 
        under paragraph (1) shall--
                    ``(A) provide oversight, guidance, training, 
                travel, equipment, and coordination to victim 
                assistance personnel nationwide;
                    ``(B) locate, at a minimum--
                            ``(i) a forensic interview specialist and a 
                        victim assistance specialist in each office of 
                        the Special Agent in Charge of Homeland 
                        Security Investigations;
                            ``(ii) a victim assistance specialist in 
                        each office of Homeland Security Investigations 
                        participating in a human trafficking task 
                        force;
                            ``(iii) a victim assistance specialist in 
                        each regional attache office of Homeland 
                        Security Investigations; and
                            ``(iv) a victim assistance specialist in 
                        each office of Homeland Security Investigations 
                        participating in a child sexual exploitation 
                        task force; and
                    ``(C) provide training on such topics as victims' 
                rights, victim-related policies, roles of forensic 
                interviewers and victim assistance specialists, and the 
                victim-centered approach.
            ``(3) Authorization of appropriations.--There is authorized 
        to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $25,000,000 for 
        each of fiscal years 2022 through 2027.''.

SEC. 411. MULTIDISCIPLINARY TEAMS.

    (a) Amendment.--Chapter 33 of title 28, United States Code, is 
amended by adding at the end the following:
``Sec. 540D. Multidisciplinary teams
    ``(a) Definition.--In this section, the term `child sexual abuse 
investigation' includes an investigation of child sexual abuse 
material.
    ``(b) Multidisciplinary Teams Required.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Director of the Federal Bureau of 
        Investigation (referred to in this section as the `Director') 
        shall establish and maintain, except as provided in paragraph 
        (2), multidisciplinary teams on child sexual abuse and sex and 
        labor trafficking investigations for the purposes specified in 
        subsection (c).
            ``(2) Child advocacy centers.--The Director--
                    ``(A) may work with local child advocacy centers to 
                provide appropriate multidisciplinary investigations of 
                child sexual abuse and other investigations; and
                    ``(B) shall allow, facilitate, and encourage 
                multidisciplinary teams to collaborate with appropriate 
                child advocacy centers with regard to availability, 
                provision, and use of services to and by such victims 
                and families.
            ``(3) Memoranda of understanding.--The Director shall seek 
        to enter into a memorandum of understanding with a national 
        reputable accrediting organization for children's advocacy 
        centers under which--
                    ``(A) the children's advocacy services of the 
                national organization are made available to all field 
                offices of the Federal Bureau of Investigation in the 
                continental United States; and
                    ``(B) special agents and other employees of the 
                Federal Bureau of Investigation are made aware of the 
                existence of such memoranda and its purposes.
    ``(c) Purposes.--The purposes of each multidisciplinary team 
maintained under subsection (b) shall be as follows:
            ``(1) To provide for the sharing of information among such 
        team and other appropriate personnel regarding the progress of 
        investigations into and resolutions of incidents of child 
        sexual abuse and sex and labor trafficking reported to or 
        otherwise investigated by the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
            ``(2) To provide for and enhance collaborative efforts 
        among such team and other appropriate personnel regarding 
        investigations into the abuse.
            ``(3) To enhance the social services available to victims 
        in connection with such incidents, including through the 
        enhancement of cooperation among specialists and other 
        personnel providing such services in connection with such 
        incidents.
            ``(4) To carry out other duties regarding the response to 
        child sexual abuse investigations.
    ``(d) Personnel.--
            ``(1) In general.--Each multidisciplinary team maintained 
        under subsection (b) shall be composed of the following:
                    ``(A) Appropriate investigative personnel.
                    ``(B) Appropriate mental health professionals.
                    ``(C) Appropriate medical personnel.
                    ``(D) Family advocacy case workers.
                    ``(E) Child advocacy center personnel.
                    ``(F) Appropriate prosecutors.
            ``(2) Expertise and training.--
                    ``(A) In general.--Any individual assigned to a 
                multidisciplinary team shall possess such expertise, 
                and shall undertake such training as is required to 
                maintain such expertise, in order to ensure that 
                members of the team remain appropriately qualified to 
                carry out the purposes of the team under this section.
                    ``(B) Requirement.--The training and expertise 
                required under subparagraph (A) shall include training 
                and expertise on special victims' crimes, including 
                child sexual abuse.
    ``(e) Sharing of Information.--
            ``(1) Access to information.--Personnel of child advocacy 
        centers who are assigned to work on an investigation under this 
        section shall be granted access to the case information 
        necessary to perform their role conducting forensic interviews, 
        providing mental health treatment, medical care, and victim 
        advocacy for Federal Bureau of Investigation cases.
            ``(2) Sharing information with fbi.--Child advocacy centers 
        shall provide the Federal Bureau of Investigation with forensic 
        interview recordings and documentation, medical reports, and 
        other case information on Federal Bureau of Investigation-
        related cases.
            ``(3) Security clearances.--
                    ``(A) In general.--The Federal Bureau of 
                Investigation shall provide security clearances to not 
                more than 20 individuals who are personnel of child 
                advocacy centers for purposes of case review by 
                multidisciplinary teams.
                    ``(B) Authorization of appropriations.--There is 
                authorized to be appropriated such sums as are 
                necessary to carry out subparagraph (A).
    ``(f) Use of Teams.--Multidisciplinary teams required under this 
section shall be made available for minor and adolescent reporting of 
child sexual abuse, as well as adult reporting of child sexual abuse.
    ``(g) Case Review by Multidisciplinary Team.--Child sexual abuse 
investigations shall be regularly reviewed by a multidisciplinary team 
under this section at regularly scheduled times to--
            ``(1) share information about case progress;
            ``(2) address any investigative or prosecutorial barriers; 
        and
            ``(3) ensure that victims receive support and needed 
        treatment.
    ``(h) Availability of Victim Advocates.--The Director shall make 
victim advocates available to all reporting victims.''.
    (b) Technical and Conforming Amendment.--The table of sections for 
chapter 33 of title 28, United States Code, is amended by inserting 
after the item relating to section 540C the following:

``540D. Multidisciplinary teams.''.
                                 
