
[Congressional Bills 117th Congress]
[From the U.S. Government Publishing Office]
[S. 4008 Placed on Calendar Senate (PCS)]







                                                       Calendar No. 344
117th CONGRESS
  2d Session
                                S. 4008

  To provide COVID relief for restaurants, gyms, minor league sports 
    teams, border businesses, live venue service providers, exclave 
         businesses, and providers of transportation services.


_______________________________________________________________________


                   IN THE SENATE OF THE UNITED STATES

                             April 5, 2022

Mr. Cardin (for himself and Mr. Wicker) introduced the following bill; 
                     which was read the first time

                             April 6, 2022

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL


 
  To provide COVID relief for restaurants, gyms, minor league sports 
    teams, border businesses, live venue service providers, exclave 
         businesses, and providers of transportation services.

    Be it enacted by the Senate and House of Representatives of the 
United States of America in Congress assembled,

SECTION 1. SHORT TITLE.

    This Act may be cited as the ``Small Business COVID Relief Act of 
2022''.

SEC. 2. TABLE OF CONTENTS.

    The table of contents for this Act is as follows:

Sec. 1. Short title.
Sec. 2. Table of contents.
Sec. 3. Definitions.
 TITLE I--RESTAURANT REVITALIZATION FUND REPLENISHMENT AND IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 101. Appropriation.
Sec. 102. Insufficient funding.
Sec. 103. Data transparency and customer service.
Sec. 104. Oversight and audits.
Sec. 105. Requirement of continuing operation.
TITLE II--SUPPORT FOR ADDITIONAL BUSINESSES SUFFERING PANDEMIC-RELATED 
                              REVENUE LOSS

          Subtitle A--Support for Gyms and Fitness Facilities

Sec. 211. Definitions.
Sec. 212. Support for gyms and fitness centers.
Sec. 213. Grants from Fund.
              Subtitle B--Support for Minor League Sports

Sec. 221. Definitions.
Sec. 222. Save Minor League Sports Fund.
Sec. 223. Save minor league sports grants.
 Subtitle C--Support for Border Businesses Affected by Border Closures

Sec. 231. Definitions.
Sec. 232. Border closure recovery grant program.
Sec. 233. Grants from Fund.
Sec. 234. Outreach.
    Subtitle D--Support for Live Venue Service and Support Companies

Sec. 241. Definitions.
Sec. 242. Live Venue Service and Support Business Relief Fund.
Sec. 243. Grants from Fund.
       Subtitle E--Support for Exclave Community Small Businesses

Sec. 251. Definitions.
Sec. 252. Exclave Community Small Business Relief Fund.
Sec. 253. Grants from Fund.
   Subtitle F--Administration and Implementation of Support Programs

Sec. 261 Definition.
Sec. 262. Data transparency and customer service.
Sec. 263. Business identifiers.
Sec. 264. Applications.
Sec. 265. Prohibition on participation in multiple programs.
Sec. 266. Transfer of funds.
Sec. 267. Oversight and audits.
Sec. 268. Administrative funding.
Sec. 269. Gross receipts.
Sec. 270. Rules.
               TITLE III--OTHER SBA PROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS

Sec. 301. Shuttered venue operators.
Sec. 302. Treatment of paycheck protection program loan forgiveness of 
                            payroll costs under highway and public 
                            transportation project cost reimbursement 
                            contracts.
                   TITLE IV--TRANSPORTATION SERVICES

Sec. 401. Additional assistance for eligible providers of 
                            transportation services affected by COVID-
                            19.
                            TITLE V--OFFSETS

Sec. 501. Offsetting rescissions.
                      TITLE VI--BUDGETARY EFFECTS

Sec. 601. Emergency designation.

SEC. 3. DEFINITIONS.

    In this Act:
            (1) Administrator.--The term ``Administrator'' means the 
        Administrator of the Small Business Administration.
            (2) Covered mortgage obligation; covered rent obligation; 
        covered supplier cost; covered utility payment; covered worker 
        protection expenditure.--The terms ``covered mortgage 
        obligation'', ``covered rent obligation'', ``covered supplier 
        cost'', ``covered utility payment'', and ``covered worker 
        protection expenditure'' have the meanings given the terms in 
        section 7A(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636m(a)).
            (3) Exchange; issuer; security.--The terms ``exchange'', 
        ``issuer'', and ``security'' have the meanings given those 
        terms in section 3(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
        (15 U.S.C. 78c(a)).
            (4) National securities exchange.--The term ``national 
        securities exchange'' means an exchange that is registered in 
        accordance with section 6 of the Securities Exchange Act of 
        1934 (15 U.S.C. 78f).
            (5) Payroll costs.--The term ``payroll costs'' has the 
        meaning given the term in section 7(a)(36)(A) of the Small 
        Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)(36)(A)), except that such term 
        shall not include--
                    (A) qualified wages (as defined in subsection 
                (c)(3) of section 2301 of the CARES Act (26 U.S.C. 3111 
                note)) taken into account in determining the credit 
                allowed under such section 2301; or
                    (B) premiums taken into account in determining the 
                credit allowed under section 6432 of the Internal 
                Revenue Code of 1986.
            (6) Private equity fund.--The term ``private equity fund'' 
        has the meaning given the term in section 225.173(a) of title 
        12, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation.
            (7) Publicly-traded company.--The term ``publicly-traded 
        company'' means an entity that is majority owned or controlled 
        by an entity that is an issuer, the securities of which are 
        listed on a national securities exchange.
            (8) Tribally-owned concern.--The term ``Tribally-owned 
        concern'' has the meaning given the term in section 124.3 of 
        title 13, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor 
        regulation.

 TITLE I--RESTAURANT REVITALIZATION FUND REPLENISHMENT AND IMPROVEMENTS

SEC. 101. APPROPRIATION.

    Section 5003 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 
9009c) is amended--
            (1) in subsection (b)(2)--
                    (A) in subparagraph (A)--
                            (i) by striking ``$28,600,000,000'' and 
                        inserting ``$68,600,000,000''; and
                            (ii) by inserting ``, of which not more 
                        than $250,000,000 shall be for administrative 
                        expenses to carry out this section and of which 
                        $20,000,000 shall be for the Inspector General 
                        of the Small Business Administration for audits 
                        of grants under this section to investigate 
                        fraud and to identify improper payments and 
                        ineligible recipients, and for other necessary 
                        expenses of the Office of the Inspector 
                        General'' before the period at the end; and
                    (B) in subparagraph (B)(i)(II), by striking 
                ``$23,600,000,000'' and inserting ``any remaining 
                amounts not used for a purpose authorized under 
                subparagraph (A) or clause (i) of this subparagraph''; 
                and
            (2) in subsection (c)--
                    (A) in paragraph (1), by striking ``and paragraph 
                (3)''; and
                    (B) by striking paragraph (3).

SEC. 102. INSUFFICIENT FUNDING.

    Section 5003 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 
9009c) is amended by adding at the end the following:
    ``(d) Insufficient Funding.--
            ``(1) In general.--If the Administrator determines that the 
        amounts made available to carry out this section are 
        insufficient to make grants in the amount provided in 
        subsection (c)(4) to each eligible entity that has submitted an 
        application in accordance with the program guidelines in effect 
        on the day before the date of enactment of this subsection, but 
        has not received an award as of such date, the Administrator 
        shall make grants with the available amounts to each such 
        eligible applicant--
                    ``(A) such that the amount of the grant that each 
                such eligible entity would have otherwise received 
                under this section is reduced by an equal percentage;
                    ``(B) by establishing a maximum amount for a grant 
                made under this subsection to ensure that smaller 
                eligible entities still receive grants in the amounts 
                provided under subsection (c)(4); or
                    ``(C) by providing full awards in the amounts 
                provided under subsection (c)(4) below a certain 
                threshold (as the Administrator may establish) and 
                reducing grants above that threshold by an equal 
                percentage.
            ``(2) Reserving funds.--Nothing in paragraph (1) shall 
        prevent the Administrator from--
                    ``(A) reserving funding for applicants that may be 
                determined to be eligible for a grant under this 
                section upon reconsideration; or
                    ``(B) making partial awards to eligible entities on 
                a preliminary basis until the amount of funding 
                required to fund grants to all eligible applicants is 
                established, upon the completion of the reconsideration 
                process.''.

SEC. 103. DATA TRANSPARENCY AND CUSTOMER SERVICE.

    Section 5003 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 
9009c), as amended by section 102 of this Act, is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(e) Reports.--The Administrator shall--
            ``(1) on a biweekly basis until the amounts made available 
        to carry out this section are fully expended, publish data that 
        shows, for the period beginning on the date on which the 
        Administrator began making grants under this section and ending 
        on the date on which the information is published--
                    ``(A) with respect to applications for grants under 
                this section, the number of those applications--
                            ``(i) that the Administrator has received;
                            ``(ii) that the Administrator has reviewed 
                        or is in the process of reviewing; and
                            ``(iii) with respect to which the 
                        Administrator has made a decision; and
                    ``(B) the number and dollar amount of grants under 
                this section--
                            ``(i) that have been awarded; and
                            ``(ii) that have been disbursed;
            ``(2) on a weekly basis until the amounts made available to 
        carry out this section are fully expended, publish, with 
        respect to the period beginning on the date of enactment of 
        this subsection and ending on the date on which the information 
        is published--
                    ``(A) with respect to each eligible entity to which 
                a grant is made under this section--
                            ``(i) the name of the eligible entity, 
                        including the name or names under which the 
                        eligible entity does business if that name is 
                        different from the name of the eligible entity; 
                        and
                            ``(ii) the address of--
                                    ``(I) the eligible entity; and
                                    ``(II) the physical location or 
                                locations for the eligible entity 
                                listed on the application, if different 
                                from the address of the eligible 
                                entity;
                    ``(B) the amount of each grant described in 
                subparagraph (A); and
                    ``(C) the business category listed in subsection 
                (a)(4)(A) to which the eligible entity belongs; and
            ``(3) with respect to an applicant that applies for a grant 
        under this section and is denied by the Administrator--
                    ``(A) make available to the applicant a brief 
                explanation identifying the reason why the 
                Administrator denied the application of the applicant, 
                which shall include, where applicable, a citation to 
                the statutory, regulatory, or guidance provision with 
                which the applicant failed to comply and that was the 
                basis for the denial; and
                    ``(B) establish a reconsideration process through 
                which the applicant may--
                            ``(i) submit to the Administrator 
                        additional information the applicant determines 
                        to be relevant to whether the applicant is 
                        eligible for the grant;
                            ``(ii) challenge the decision of the 
                        Administrator; and
                            ``(iii) receive a second review of the 
                        application submitted by the applicant.''.

SEC. 104. OVERSIGHT AND AUDITS.

    Section 5003 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 
9009c), as amended by section 103 of this Act, is amended by adding at 
the end the following:
    ``(f) Oversight and Audits.--
            ``(1) In general.--The Administrator shall institute an 
        oversight and audit plan with respect to eligible entities 
        receiving grants under this section, which shall include--
                    ``(A) documentation requirements that are 
                consistent with the eligibility and other requirements 
                under this section, including by requiring an eligible 
                entity that receives a grant under this section to 
                retain records that demonstrate compliance with those 
                requirements; and
                    ``(B) reviews of the use, by eligible entities, of 
                grants made under this section to ensure compliance 
                with the requirements of this section, which shall 
                include--
                            ``(i) the review and audit, by the 
                        Administrator, of grants made under this 
                        section; and
                            ``(ii) in the case of fraud or other 
                        material noncompliance with respect to a grant 
                        made under this section--
                                    ``(I) a requirement that the 
                                applicable eligible entity repay to the 
                                Administrator the amount of the 
                                misspent funds; or
                                    ``(II) the pursuit, by the 
                                Administrator, of legal action to 
                                collect the misspent funds.
            ``(2) Submission of plan.--Not later than 30 days after the 
        date of enactment of this subsection, the Administrator shall 
        submit to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship 
        of the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House 
        of Representatives the plan required under paragraph (1), which 
        shall describe--
                    ``(A) the policies and procedures of the 
                Administrator for conducting oversight and audits of 
                grants made under this section; and
                    ``(B) the metrics that the Administrator will use 
                to determine which grants made under this section will 
                be audited under that plan.
            ``(3) Reports.--Not later than 60 days after the date of 
        enactment of this subsection, and once every 30 days thereafter 
        until the date that is 180 days after the date on which all 
        amounts made available to carry out this section have been 
        fully expended, and upon request thereafter, the Administrator 
        shall submit to the Committee on Small Business and 
        Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small 
        Business of the House of Representatives a report on the 
        oversight and audit activities of the Administrator under this 
        subsection, which shall include--
                    ``(A) the total number of grants approved and 
                disbursed under this section;
                    ``(B) the total amount of each grant received by 
                each eligible entity;
                    ``(C) the number of active investigations and 
                audits of grants made under this section;
                    ``(D) the number of completed reviews and audits of 
                grants made under this section, including a description 
                of--
                            ``(i) any findings of fraud or other 
                        material noncompliance with the requirements of 
                        this section;
                            ``(ii) questionable costs identified by the 
                        Administrator; and
                            ``(iii) the total amount recouped from 
                        ineligible recipients; and
                    ``(E) a description of any substantial changes made 
                to the plan required under paragraph (1).
            ``(4) Retroactive application.--This subsection shall apply 
        to grants and decisions made under this section before, on, or 
        after the date of enactment of this subsection.''.

SEC. 105. REQUIREMENT OF CONTINUING OPERATION.

    For any application for a grant under section 5003 of the American 
Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c) that is pending on the date 
of enactment of this Act or for which the applicant has received an 
award notice but the Administrator has not disbursed amounts under the 
grant, the Administrator may not disburse amounts under the grant 
unless the applicant submits a statement to the Administrator 
indicating the applicant is still operating, or intends to reopen not 
later than 180 days after the date on which the statement is submitted, 
the applicable place of business.

TITLE II--SUPPORT FOR ADDITIONAL BUSINESSES SUFFERING PANDEMIC-RELATED 
                              REVENUE LOSS

          Subtitle A--Support for Gyms and Fitness Facilities

SEC. 211. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Affiliated business.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``affiliated business'' 
                means a business in which an eligible entity has an 
                equity or right to profit distributions of not less 
                than 50 percent, or in which an eligible entity has the 
                contractual authority to control the direction of the 
                business, provided that such affiliation shall be 
                determined as of any arrangements or agreements in 
                existence as of February 29, 2020.
                    (B) Regulations.--For purposes of eligibility for 
                covered grants--
                            (i) the provisions applicable to 
                        affiliations under section 121.301 of title 13, 
                        Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor 
                        regulation, are waived for any business concern 
                        operating as a franchise that is assigned a 
                        franchise identifier code by the 
                        Administration; and
                            (ii) the exceptions to affiliation noted in 
                        section 121.103(b) of title 13, Code of Federal 
                        Regulations, or any successor regulation, shall 
                        apply to an affiliated business.
            (2) Covered grant.--The term ``covered grant'' means a 
        grant under section 213 made to an eligible entity.
            (3) Covered period.--The term ``covered period'' means the 
        period--
                    (A) beginning on March 1, 2020; and
                    (B) ending on March 31, 2023, or a date to be 
                determined by the Administrator that is not later than 
                2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (4) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity''--
                    (A) means a fitness facility--
                            (i) that employs not more than 500 
                        employees, determined on a full-time 
                        equivalency basis;
                            (ii) that--
                                    (I) provides instruction in a 
                                program of in-person physical exercise; 
                                or
                                    (II) offers space for individuals 
                                to take part in the preservation, 
                                maintenance, encouragement, or 
                                development of physical fitness;
                            (iii) for which the health or fitness 
                        component is not incidental to the overall 
                        function and purpose of the facility; and
                            (iv) that derives revenue primarily from 
                        membership dues or admission or participation 
                        fees;
                    (B) may include--
                            (i) a for-profit entity;
                            (ii) a nonprofit entity; and
                            (iii) a Tribally-owned concern; and
                    (C) does not include--
                            (i) an entity with pandemic-related revenue 
                        losses that are not greater than 25 percent;
                            (ii) an entity described in subparagraph 
                        (A) that--
                                    (I) is a State or local government-
                                operated business;
                                    (II) as of March 1, 2020, owns or 
                                operates (together with any affiliated 
                                business) more than 10 locations, 
                                regardless of whether those locations 
                                do business under the same or multiple 
                                names;
                                    (III) has a pending application for 
                                or has received a grant under--
                                            (aa) section 324 of the 
                                        Economic Aid to Hard Hit Small 
                                        Businesses, Nonprofits, and 
                                        Venues Act (15 U.S.C. 9009a); 
                                        or
                                            (bb) section 5003 of the 
                                        American Rescue Plan Act of 
                                        2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c); or
                                    (IV) offers golf, hunting, sailing, 
                                shooting, or riding facilities;
                            (iii) a publicly-traded company;
                            (iv) an entity that was not in operation 
                        before March 1, 2020; or
                            (v) an entity that is not in operation on, 
                        and does not intend to reopen on or before the 
                        date that is 180 days after, the date on which 
                        the entity applies for a covered grant.
            (5) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the Gym and Fitness 
        Center Recovery Fund established under section 212(a)(1).
            (6) Pandemic-related revenue loss.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                term ``pandemic-related revenue loss'' means, with 
                respect to an eligible entity--
                            (i) except as provided in clauses (ii) and 
                        (iii), the gross receipts, as established using 
                        such verification documentation as the 
                        Administrator may require, of the eligible 
                        entity during 2020 subtracted from the gross 
                        receipts of the eligible entity in 2019, if 
                        such amount is greater than zero, except that 
                        the Administrator may make adjustments to this 
                        formula as needed for seasonal businesses, 
                        businesses affected by natural disasters, and 
                        to address other circumstances identified by 
                        the Administrator requiring accommodation;
                            (ii) if the eligible entity was not in 
                        operation for the entirety of 2019--
                                    (I) the difference, if greater than 
                                zero, between--
                                            (aa) the product obtained 
                                        by multiplying the average 
                                        monthly gross receipts of the 
                                        eligible entity in 2019 by 12; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) the product obtained 
                                        by multiplying the average 
                                        monthly gross receipts of the 
                                        eligible entity in 2020 by 12; 
                                        or
                                    (II) an amount based on a formula 
                                determined by the Administrator; and
                            (iii) if the eligible entity opened during 
                        the period beginning on January 1, 2020 and 
                        ending on February 29, 2020, an amount based on 
                        a formula determined by the Administrator.
                    (B) Reduction.--
                            (i) In general.--The pandemic-related 
                        revenue losses for an eligible entity shall be 
                        reduced by--
                                    (I) any amounts received from a 
                                covered loan made under paragraph (36) 
                                or (37) of section 7(a) of the Small 
                                Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) in 2020 
                                or 2021; and
                                    (II) the amount by which the total 
                                of all remunerative payments made to an 
                                individual, including any annual salary 
                                paid to an employee, in 2020 exceeds 
                                $250,000.
                            (ii) Administrator authority.--The 
                        Administrator may determine the types of 
                        payments and individuals to which clause 
                        (i)(II) applies.

SEC. 212. SUPPORT FOR GYMS AND FITNESS CENTERS.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established within the Restaurant 
        Revitalization Fund established under section 5003 of the 
        American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c) a fund to be 
        known as the Gym and Fitness Center Recovery Fund.
            (2) Use of funds.--Subject to section 266, the 
        Administrator may use amounts in the Fund only for the purposes 
        described in this subtitle and not for any purpose described in 
        section 5003 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 
        9009c).
    (b) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Fund for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $2,000,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

SEC. 213. GRANTS FROM FUND.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (c)(3) of this 
section, the Administrator shall make covered grants to eligible 
entities in the order in which applications are received by the 
Administrator.
    (b) Applications.--
            (1) Certification.--An eligible entity applying for a 
        covered grant shall make a good faith certification that--
                    (A) the uncertainty of current economic conditions 
                makes necessary the request for the covered grant to 
                support the ongoing operations of the eligible entity;
                    (B) the eligible entity does not have a pending 
                application for, and has not received, a grant under--
                            (i) section 324 of the Economic Aid to 
                        Hard-Hit Small Businesses, Nonprofits, and 
                        Venues Act (15 U.S.C. 9009a); or
                            (ii) section 5003 of the American Rescue 
                        Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c); and
                    (C) contains any other information that the 
                Administrator may require.
            (2) Verification materials.--Subject to section 
        211(6)(A)(i), the Administrator shall use tax records, and may, 
        in addition, use other reliable sources such as certified 
        accounting statements, with respect to an applicant for a 
        covered grant to determine--
                    (A) the eligibility of the applicant for that 
                covered grant; and
                    (B) the amount of that covered grant to the 
                applicant.
            (3) Acceptance of applications.--Not later than 60 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator 
        shall begin accepting applications for covered grants.
    (c) Amount of Grant.--
            (1) Aggregate maximum amount.--The aggregate amount of 
        covered grants made to an eligible entity and any affiliated 
        businesses of the eligible entity--
                    (A) shall not exceed $2,000,000; and
                    (B) shall be limited to $1,000,000 per physical 
                location of the eligible entity.
            (2) Determination of amount of grant.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in this 
                subsection, the amount of a covered grant made to an 
                eligible entity shall be equal to the difference 
                between--
                            (i) the pandemic-related revenue loss of 
                        the eligible entity; and
                            (ii)(I) the amount equal to the product 
                        obtained by multiplying 3 by the average 
                        monthly gross receipts of the eligible entity 
                        in 2019; or
                            (II) for an eligible entity that did not 
                        have gross receipts in 2019, because the 
                        eligible entity began operating between January 
                        1, 2020 and February 29, 2020 or due to other 
                        factors identified by the Administrator, an 
                        alternative amount based on a formula to be 
                        determined by the Administrator.
                    (B) Limitation.--An eligible entity may not receive 
                a covered grant in an amount that is greater than--
                            (i) the amount equal to the product 
                        obtained by multiplying 6 by the average 
                        monthly gross receipts of the eligible entity 
                        in 2019; or
                            (ii) if the eligible entity was not in 
                        operation for the entirety of 2019, if the 
                        gross receipts of the eligible entity during 
                        2019 were reduced due to other factors 
                        identified by the Administrator, or if the 
                        eligible entity opened during the period 
                        beginning on January 1, 2020 and ending on 
                        February 29, 2020, an amount determined under a 
                        formula established by the Administrator.
                    (C) Minimum amount.--The Administrator may 
                establish a minimum amount of a covered grant in an 
                amount that is not more than $10,000.
                    (D) Return to sba.--Any amount of a covered grant 
                to an eligible entity based on estimated receipts that 
                is greater than the actual gross receipts of the 
                eligible entity in 2020 shall be returned to the 
                Administrator, who may use those returned funds to make 
                additional covered grants.
            (3) Insufficient funding.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Administrator determines 
                that the amounts made available to carry out this 
                subtitle are insufficient to make covered grants to 
                each eligible entity in the amount provided under 
                paragraphs (1) and (2), the Administrator shall--
                            (i) make covered grants with the available 
                        amounts--
                                    (I) such that the amount of the 
                                covered grant that each such eligible 
                                entity would have otherwise received 
                                under those paragraphs is reduced by an 
                                equal percentage;
                                    (II) by establishing a maximum 
                                amount for a covered grant made under 
                                this clause to ensure that smaller 
                                eligible entities still receive covered 
                                grants in the amounts provided under 
                                those paragraphs; or
                                    (III) by providing covered grants 
                                in the amounts provided under those 
                                paragraphs below a certain threshold 
                                (as the Administrator may establish) 
                                and reducing covered grants above that 
                                threshold by an equal percentage; and
                            (ii) in a manner that complies with clause 
                        (i), make covered grants to each eligible 
                        entity that submits an application for a 
                        covered grant during the 21-day period 
                        beginning on the date on which the 
                        Administrator begins accepting those 
                        applications.
                    (B) Reserving funds.--Nothing in subparagraph (A) 
                shall prevent the Administrator from--
                            (i) reserving funding for applicants that 
                        may be determined to be eligible for a covered 
                        grant upon reconsideration; or
                            (ii) making partial awards to eligible 
                        entities on a preliminary basis until the 
                        amount of funding required to fund covered 
                        grants to all eligible entities that submit 
                        applications is established, upon the 
                        completion of the reconsideration process.
    (d) Use of Funds.--During the covered period, an eligible entity 
that receives a covered grant may use amounts received under the 
covered grant for the following expenses incurred as a direct result 
of, or during, the COVID-19 pandemic:
            (1) Payroll costs.
            (2) Payments to independent contractors, as reported on 
        Form 1099-MISC, except that each payment under this paragraph 
        shall be in an amount that is not more than $100,000.
            (3) Scheduled payments of interest or principal on any 
        covered mortgage obligation (which may not include any 
        prepayment of principal on a covered mortgage obligation).
            (4) Payments on any covered rent obligation and common area 
        maintenance charges under a lease agreement.
            (5) Covered utility payments.
            (6) Maintenance expenses.
            (7) Covered worker protection expenditures.
            (8) Supplies, including protective equipment and cleaning 
        materials.
            (9) Expenses that were within the scope of the normal 
        business practice of the eligible entity before the covered 
        period.
            (10) Covered supplier costs.
            (11) Operational expenses.
            (12) Paid sick leave.
            (13) Capital expenditures (or expenses required under any 
        Federal, State, or local law) relating to implementing social 
        distancing measures.
            (14) Any other expenses that the Administrator determines 
        to be essential to maintaining the eligible entity.
    (e) Returning Funds.--If an eligible entity that receives a covered 
grant fails to use all of the amounts received under the covered grant 
on or before the last day of the covered period or permanently ceases 
operations on or before the last day of the covered period, the 
eligible entity shall return to the Treasury any funds that the 
eligible entity did not use for the allowable expenses under subsection 
(d).

              Subtitle B--Support for Minor League Sports

SEC. 221. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Covered grant.--The term ``covered grant'' means a 
        grant made under section 223 to an eligible entity.
            (2) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the Save Minor League 
        Sports Fund established under section 222(a)(1).
            (3) Eligible entity.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``eligible entity'' means 
                any minor league sports team that meets the following 
                requirements:
                            (i) The minor league sports team was 
                        operating in the ordinary course of business on 
                        February 29, 2020.
                            (ii) The gross receipts of the minor league 
                        sports team--
                                    (I) in calendar year 2020 or the 
                                fiscal year ending in 2021 was not more 
                                than 50 percent of the gross receipts 
                                of the minor league sports team in 
                                calendar year 2019 or the fiscal year 
                                ending in 2019, respectively; or
                                    (II) in calendar year 2020 or the 
                                fiscal year ending in 2021 was not more 
                                than 50 percent of the gross receipts 
                                of the minor league sports team over 
                                the 3-year period from calendar year 
                                2016 through calendar 2018 or the 
                                fiscal year ending in 2016 through the 
                                fiscal year ending in 2018, 
                                respectively, if the gross receipts of 
                                the minor league sports team was 
                                negatively impacted by a natural 
                                disaster or weather disruption in 
                                calendar year 2019 or the fiscal year 
                                ending in 2019.
                            (iii) The minor league sports team is open 
                        on, or intends to reopen on or before the date 
                        that is 180 days after, the date on which the 
                        minor league sports team submits the 
                        certification required under section 223(b)(1), 
                        for the primary purpose of conducting sports 
                        games.
                    (B) Exclusions.--The term ``eligible entity'' does 
                not include a minor league sports team that--
                            (i) has a pending application for or has 
                        received a grant under--
                                    (I) section 324 of the Economic Aid 
                                to Hard-Hit Small Businesses, 
                                Nonprofits, and Venues Act (15 U.S.C. 
                                9009a); or
                                    (II) section 5003 of the American 
                                Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 
                                9009c);
                            (ii) is owned directly or indirectly by a 
                        major league sports league or major league 
                        sports team;
                            (iii) has an individual owner with--
                                    (I) not less than a 20 percent 
                                share in the team; and
                                    (II) more than a 10 percent 
                                ownership interest in a major league 
                                sports league or major league sports 
                                team;
                            (iv) is more than 50 percent owned by a 
                        private equity fund; or
                            (v) is more than 50 percent owned by a 
                        publicly-traded company.
                    (C) Multiple business entities.--The Administrator 
                shall treat each eligible entity as an independent, 
                non-affiliated entity for the purposes of this 
                subtitle.
            (4) Minor league sports team.--The term ``minor league 
        sports team'' means a professional sports team--
                    (A) that may be--
                            (i) a corporation, limited liability 
                        company, partnership, or nonprofit 
                        organization;
                            (ii) operated as a sole proprietorship; or
                            (iii) a Tribally-owned concern;
                    (B) that, as of the date of enactment of this Act--
                            (i) is located in the United States;
                            (ii) is not owned directly or indirectly by 
                        an educational institution;
                            (iii) derives income primarily from the 
                        presence of in-person spectators;
                            (iv) is not--
                                    (I) a recreational, intramural, 
                                club, or other type of amateur sports 
                                team; or
                                    (II) a training academy open to 
                                athletes under 18 years of age;
                            (v) does not require players to pay a fee 
                        to participate; and
                            (vi) either has a formal relationship with 
                        a major league sports team or major league 
                        sports league to develop players to compete in 
                        a major league sports league, or competes in a 
                        sports league from which a major league sports 
                        team or major league sports league scouts for 
                        prospective players; and
                    (C) comprised of players paid a salary to play in 
                the games of the team as of--
                            (i) the date of enactment of this Act; or
                            (ii) February 29, 2020.
            (5) Major league sports league.--The term ``major league 
        sports league'' means a professional sports league consisting 
        of teams competing at the highest professional level of a given 
        sport in the United States, as determined by the Administrator.
            (6) Major league sports team.--The term ``major league 
        sports team'' means a team that competes in a major league 
        sports league.
            (7) Natural disaster or weather disruption.--The term 
        ``natural disaster or weather disruption'' means--
                    (A) a flooding event, hurricane, earthquake, forest 
                fire, or other disaster that triggers eligibility for 
                Federal aid, including disaster assistance from the 
                Administrator; or
                    (B) a series of weather-related events that, 
                individually or collectively, caused more than 20 
                percent of games to be permanently canceled.
            (8) Pandemic-related revenue loss.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``pandemic-related 
                revenue loss'', with respect to an eligible entity, as 
                established using such verification documentation as 
                the Administrator may require, means, if such amount is 
                greater than zero--
                            (i) except as provided in clauses (ii), 
                        (iii), and (iv), the gross receipts of the 
                        eligible entity during calendar year 2020 or 
                        the fiscal year ending in 2021 subtracted from 
                        the gross receipts of the eligible entity in 
                        calendar year 2019 or the fiscal year ending in 
                        2019, respectively;
                            (ii) the gross receipts of the eligible 
                        entity during calendar year 2020 or the fiscal 
                        year ending in 2021 subtracted from the average 
                        annual gross receipts of the eligible entity 
                        over the 3-year period from calendar year 2016 
                        through calendar year 2018 or the fiscal year 
                        ending in 2016 through the fiscal year ending 
                        in 2018, respectively, if the gross receipts of 
                        the eligible entity were negatively impacted by 
                        a natural disaster or weather disruption in 
                        calendar year 2019 or the fiscal year ending in 
                        2019;
                            (iii) if the eligible entity was not in 
                        operation for the entirety of 2019--
                                    (I) the difference between--
                                            (aa) the product obtained 
                                        by multiplying the average 
                                        monthly gross receipts of the 
                                        eligible entity in calendar 
                                        year 2019 or the fiscal year 
                                        ending in 2019 by 12; and
                                            (bb) the product obtained 
                                        by multiplying the average 
                                        monthly gross receipts of the 
                                        eligible entity in calendar 
                                        year 2020 or the fiscal year 
                                        ending in 2021 by 12; or
                                    (II) an amount based on a formula 
                                determined by the Administrator; or
                            (iv) if the eligible entity opened during 
                        the period beginning on January 1, 2020, and 
                        ending on February 29, 2020--
                                    (I) the expenses described in 
                                section 223(f) that were incurred by 
                                the eligible entity minus any gross 
                                receipts received; or
                                    (II) an amount based on a formula 
                                determined by the Administrator.
                    (B) Reduction.--For purposes of this paragraph, the 
                pandemic-related revenue loss for an eligible entity 
                shall be reduced by any amounts received from a covered 
                loan made under paragraph (36) or (37) of section 7(a) 
                of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) in 2020 or 
                2021.

SEC. 222. SAVE MINOR LEAGUE SPORTS FUND.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established within the Restaurant 
        Revitalization Fund established under section 5003 of the 
        American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c) a fund to be 
        known as the Save Minor League Sports Fund.
            (2) Use of funds.--Subject to section 266, the 
        Administrator may use amounts in the Fund only for the purposes 
        described in this subtitle and not for any purpose described in 
        section 5003 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 
        9009c).
    (b) Appropriations.--
            (1) In general.--In addition to amounts otherwise 
        available, there is appropriated to the Fund for fiscal year 
        2022, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise 
        appropriated, $500,000,000, to remain available until expended.
    (c) Use of Funds.--The Administrator shall use amounts in the Fund 
to make covered grants.

SEC. 223. SAVE MINOR LEAGUE SPORTS GRANTS.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (e)(3), the 
Administrator shall award covered grants to eligible entities in the 
order in which applications are received by the Administrator.
    (b) Application.--An eligible entity applying for a covered grant 
shall make a good faith certification that--
            (1) the uncertainty of current economic conditions makes 
        necessary the grant request to support the ongoing operations 
        of the eligible entity;
            (2) the eligible entity does not have a pending application 
        nor has the eligible entity received a grant under--
                    (A) section 324 of the Economic Aid to Hard-Hit 
                Small Businesses, Nonprofits, and Venues Act (15 U.S.C. 
                9009a); or
                    (B) section 5003 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 
                2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c); and
            (3) contains any other information that the Administrator 
        may require.
    (c) Verification Materials.--Subject to section 221(8)(A), the 
Administrator shall use tax records, and may, in addition, use other 
reliable sources such as certified accounting statements, with respect 
to an applicant for a covered grant to determine--
            (1) the eligibility of the applicant for that covered 
        grant; and
            (2) the amount of that covered grant to the applicant.
    (d) Limitation on Number of Grants.--An eligible entity may receive 
only 1 covered grant.
    (e) Maximum Amount.--
            (1) Aggregate maximum amount.--The amount of a covered 
        grant made to an eligible entity--
                    (A) shall not exceed $5,000,000; and
                    (B) shall be limited to--
                            (i) 50 percent of the gross receipts of the 
                        eligible entity for calendar year 2019 or the 
                        fiscal year ending in 2019;
                            (ii) 50 percent of the average annual gross 
                        receipts of the eligible entity over the 3-year 
                        period from calendar year 2016 through calendar 
                        year 2018 or the fiscal year ending in 2016 
                        through the fiscal year ending in 2018, if the 
                        gross receipts of the eligible entity were 
                        negatively impacted by a natural disaster or 
                        weather disruption in calendar year 2019 or the 
                        fiscal year ending in 2019;
                            (iii) an amount based on a formula 
                        determined by the Administrator if the eligible 
                        entity was not in operation for the entirety of 
                        2019; or
                            (iv) an amount based on a formula 
                        determined by the Administrator if the eligible 
                        entity opened during the period beginning on 
                        January 1, 2020 and ending on February 29, 
                        2020.
            (2) Determination of grant amount.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in this 
                subsection, the amount of a covered grant made to an 
                eligible entity shall be equal to the difference 
                between--
                            (i) the pandemic-related revenue loss of 
                        the eligible entity; and
                            (ii)(I) the amount equal to the product 
                        obtained by multiplying 3 by the average 
                        monthly gross receipts of the eligible entity 
                        in 2019;
                            (II) for an eligible entity that did not 
                        have gross receipts in 2019, because the 
                        eligible entity began operating between January 
                        1, 2020 and February 29, 2020, or due to other 
                        factors identified by the Administrator, an 
                        alternative amount based on a formula to be 
                        determined by the Administrator; or
                            (III) for an eligibility that was 
                        negatively impacted by a natural disaster or 
                        weather disruption in calendar year 2019 or the 
                        fiscal year ending in 2019, the amount equal to 
                        the product obtained by multiplying 3 by the 
                        average monthly gross receipts of the eligible 
                        entity over the 3-year period from calendar 
                        year 2016 through calendar year 2018 or the 
                        fiscal year ending in 2016 through the fiscal 
                        year ending in 2018.
                    (B) Return of grants.--
                            (i) Gross receipts.--Any amount of a 
                        covered grant made to an eligible entity based 
                        on estimated gross receipts that is greater 
                        than the actual gross receipts of the eligible 
                        entity in 2020 shall be returned to the 
                        Administrator, who may use those returned funds 
                        to make additional covered grants.
                            (ii) Private equity fund, publicly-traded 
                        company, or major league sports team.--The full 
                        amount of a covered grant made to an eligible 
                        entity shall be returned to the Treasury if, 
                        during the 3-year period following receipt of 
                        the covered grant, the eligible entity--
                                    (I) becomes more than 50 percent 
                                owned by a private equity fund;
                                    (II) becomes or is acquired by a 
                                publicly-traded company; or
                                    (III) becomes more than 50 percent 
                                owned by a major league sports team.
            (3) Insufficient funding.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Administrator determines 
                that the amounts made available to carry out this 
                subtitle are insufficient to make covered grants to 
                each eligible entity in the amount provided under 
                paragraphs (1) and (2), the Administrator shall--
                            (i) make covered grants with the available 
                        amounts--
                                    (I) such that the amount of the 
                                covered grant that each such eligible 
                                entity would have otherwise received 
                                under those paragraphs is reduced by an 
                                equal percentage;
                                    (II) by establishing a maximum 
                                amount for a covered grant made under 
                                this clause to ensure that smaller 
                                eligible entities still receive covered 
                                grants in the amounts provided under 
                                those paragraphs; or
                                    (III) by providing covered grants 
                                in the amounts provided under those 
                                paragraphs below a certain threshold 
                                (as the Administrator may establish) 
                                and reducing covered grants above that 
                                threshold by an equal percentage; and
                            (ii) in a manner that complies with clause 
                        (i), make covered grants to each eligible 
                        entity that submits an application for a 
                        covered grant during the 21-day period 
                        beginning on the date on which the 
                        Administrator begins accepting those 
                        applications.
                    (B) Reserving funds.--Nothing in subparagraph (A) 
                shall prevent the Administrator from--
                            (i) reserving funding for applicants that 
                        may be determined to be eligible for a covered 
                        grant upon reconsideration; or
                            (ii) making partial awards to eligible 
                        entities on a preliminary basis until the 
                        amount of funding required to fund covered 
                        grants to all eligible entities that submit 
                        applications is established, upon the 
                        completion of the reconsideration process.
    (f) Use of Funds.--
            (1) Timing.--
                    (A) Expenses incurred.--Amounts received under a 
                covered grant may only be used for expenses incurred, 
                including for reimbursements of expenses already paid 
                by the eligible entity, during the period beginning on 
                March 1, 2020, and ending on the date that is 18 months 
                after the date of enactment of this Act.
                    (B) Expenditure.--An eligible entity shall return 
                to the Treasury any amounts received under a covered 
                grant that are not expended on or before the date that 
                is 18 months after the date of disbursement of the 
                covered grant.
            (2) Allowable expenses.--An eligible entity may use amounts 
        received under a covered grant for--
                    (A) payroll costs, not to exceed a total of 
                $100,000 in annual compensation for any individual 
                employee;
                    (B) payments on any covered rent obligation or 
                other obligation to a public entity from whom the 
                primary venue of the eligible entity is leased or 
                licensed;
                    (C) any covered utility payment;
                    (D) payments of interest or principal due on any 
                covered mortgage obligation;
                    (E) payments of interest or principal due on any 
                indebtedness or debt instrument incurred in the 
                ordinary course of business that is a liability of the 
                eligible entity and was in place or incurred prior to 
                March 1, 2020, including any subsequent renewals, 
                amendments, or extensions of debt instruments in place 
                as of that date;
                    (F) covered worker protection expenditures;
                    (G) payments made to independent contractors, as 
                reported on Form-1099 MISC, not to exceed a total of 
                $100,000 in annual compensation for any individual 
                employee of an independent contractor; and
                    (H) other ordinary and necessary business expenses, 
                including--
                            (i) maintenance expenses;
                            (ii) administrative costs, including fees 
                        and licensing costs;
                            (iii) State and local taxes and fees;
                            (iv) operating leases in effect as of March 
                        1, 2020;
                            (v) payments required for insurance on any 
                        insurance policy;
                            (vi) settling existing debts with vendors; 
                        and
                            (vii) advertising, production, 
                        transportation, and other expenditures relating 
                        to the primary venue of the eligible entity or 
                        events held at such venue, except that a 
                        covered grant may not be used primarily for 
                        such expenditures.
            (3) Prohibited expenses.--An eligible entity may not use 
        amounts received under a covered grant--
                    (A) to purchase real estate or to make physical 
                improvements to property unrelated to compliance with 
                social distancing guidelines;
                    (B) for payments of interest or principal for loans 
                originated after March 1, 2020;
                    (C) to invest or re-lend funds;
                    (D) for contributions or expenditures to, or on 
                behalf of, any political party, party committee, or 
                candidate for elective office; or
                    (E) for any other use as may be reasonably 
                prohibited by the Administrator.

 Subtitle C--Support for Border Businesses Affected by Border Closures

SEC. 231. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Affiliated business.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``affiliated business'' 
                means a business in which an eligible entity has an 
                equity or right to profit distributions of not less 
                than 50 percent, or in which an eligible entity has the 
                contractual authority to control the direction of the 
                business, provided that such affiliation shall be 
                determined as of any arrangements or agreements in 
                existence as of February 29, 2020.
                    (B) Regulations.--For purposes of eligibility for 
                covered grants--
                            (i) the provisions applicable to 
                        affiliations under section 121.301 of title 13, 
                        Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor 
                        regulation, are waived for any business concern 
                        operating as a franchise that is assigned a 
                        franchise identifier code by the 
                        Administration; and
                            (ii) the exceptions to affiliation noted in 
                        section 121.103(b) of title 13, Code of Federal 
                        Regulations, or any successor regulation, shall 
                        apply to an affiliated business.
            (2) Border business.--The term ``border business''--
                    (A) means an entity--
                            (i) that is a small business concern (as 
                        defined in section 3 of the Small Business Act 
                        (15 U.S.C. 632));
                            (ii) the principal office of which is 
                        located in the United States;
                            (iii) that has--
                                    (I) annual average gross receipts 
                                in 2019 in an amount that is not more 
                                than $1,000,000; and
                                    (II) not less than 1 and not more 
                                than 25 employees, determined on a 
                                full-time equivalency basis; and
                            (iv) that has a physical location within--
                                    (I) an area adjacent to a 
                                designated land port of entry, 
                                including--
                                            (aa) the lands within the 
                                        external boundaries of a 
                                        designated land port of entry 
                                        along the international borders 
                                        between the United States and 
                                        Mexico or the United States and 
                                        Canada;
                                            (bb) the census tract in 
                                        which the lands described in 
                                        item (aa) are wholly contained;
                                            (cc) a census tract the 
                                        boundaries of which intersect 
                                        the lands described in item 
                                        (aa); and
                                            (dd) a census tract--

                                                    (AA) the boundaries 
                                                of which are contiguous 
                                                to the census tracts 
                                                described in item (bb) 
                                                or (cc); and

                                                    (BB) which is not 
                                                more than 50 miles from 
                                                the international 
                                                border between the 
                                                United States and 
                                                Mexico or the United 
                                                States and Canada; or

                                    (II) a colonia;
                    (B) may include--
                            (i) a for-profit entity; and
                            (ii) a Tribally-owned concern; and
                    (C) does not include--
                            (i) an entity with pandemic-related revenue 
                        losses that are not greater than 25 percent;
                            (ii) an entity described in subparagraph 
                        (A) that is a State or local government-
                        operated business;
                            (iii) a publicly traded company;
                            (iv) an entity that is owned or operated by 
                        a private equity fund;
                            (v) an entity that was not in operation 
                        before March 1, 2020; or
                            (vi) an entity that is not in operation on, 
                        and does not intend to reopen on or before the 
                        date that is 180 days after, the date on which 
                        the entity applies for a covered grant.
            (3) Colonia.--The term ``colonia'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 916(e) of the Cranston-Gonzalez National 
        Affordable Housing Act (42 U.S.C. 5306 note).
            (4) Covered grant.--The term ``covered grant'' means a 
        grant under section 233 made to a border business.
            (5) Covered period.--The term ``covered period'' means the 
        period--
                    (A) beginning on March 1, 2020; and
                    (B) ending on March 31, 2023, or a date to be 
                determined by the Administrator that is not later than 
                2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (6) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the Border Closure 
        Recovery Grant Fund established under section 232(a)(1).
            (7) Pandemic-related revenue loss.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                term ``pandemic-related revenue loss'' means, with 
                respect to a border business--
                            (i) except as provided in clauses (ii) and 
                        (iii), the gross receipts, as established using 
                        such verification documentation as the 
                        Administrator may require, of the border 
                        business during 2020 subtracted from the gross 
                        receipts of the border business in 2019, if 
                        such amount is greater than zero, except that 
                        the Administrator may make adjustments to this 
                        formula as needed for seasonal businesses, 
                        businesses affected by natural disasters, and 
                        to address other circumstances identified by 
                        the Administrator requiring accommodation;
                            (ii) if the border business was not in 
                        operation for the entirety of 2019--
                                    (I) the difference between, if 
                                greater than zero--
                                            (aa) the product obtained 
                                        by multiplying the average 
                                        monthly gross receipts of the 
                                        border business in 2019 by 12; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) the product obtained 
                                        by multiplying the average 
                                        monthly gross receipts of the 
                                        border business in 2020 by 12; 
                                        or
                                    (II) an amount based on a formula 
                                determined by the Administrator; and
                            (iii) if the border business opened during 
                        the period beginning on January 1, 2020, and 
                        ending on February 29, 2020, an amount based on 
                        a formula determined by the Administrator.
                    (B) Reduction.--
                            (i) In general.--The pandemic-related 
                        revenue losses for a border business shall be 
                        reduced by--
                                    (I) any amounts received from a 
                                covered loan made under paragraph (36) 
                                or (37) of section 7(a) of the Small 
                                Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) in 2020 
                                or 2021; and
                                    (II) the amount by which any 
                                remunerative payment made to an 
                                individual, including any salary paid 
                                to an employee, in 2020 exceeds 
                                $250,000.
                            (ii) Administrator authority.--The 
                        Administrator may determine the types of 
                        payments and individuals to which clause 
                        (i)(II) applies.

SEC. 232. BORDER CLOSURE RECOVERY GRANT PROGRAM.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established within the Restaurant 
        Revitalization Fund established under section 5003 of the 
        American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c) a fund to be 
        known as the ``Border Closure Recovery Grant Fund''.
            (2) Use of funds.--Subject to section 266, the 
        Administrator may use amounts in the Fund only for the purposes 
        described in this subtitle and not for any purpose described in 
        section 5003 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 
        9009c).
    (b) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Fund for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,415,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

SEC. 233. GRANTS FROM FUND.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (c)(3) and in 
accordance with subsection (c)(2)(E), the Administrator shall make 
covered grants in the order in which applications are received by the 
Administrator.
    (b) Applications.--
            (1) Certification.--A border business applying for a 
        covered grant shall make a good faith certification that--
                    (A) the covered grant is necessary to support the 
                operations of the border business, which were adversely 
                affected by the border travel restrictions imposed by 
                the Federal Government in response to the COVID-19 
                pandemic;
                    (B) the border business does not have a pending 
                application for, and has not received, a grant under--
                            (i) section 324 of the Economic Aid to 
                        Hard-Hit Small Businesses, Nonprofits, and 
                        Venues Act (15 U.S.C. 9009a); or
                            (ii) section 5003 of the American Rescue 
                        Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c); and
                    (C) contains any other information that the 
                Administrator may require.
            (2) Verification materials.--Subject to section 
        231(7)(A)(i), the Administrator shall use tax records, and may, 
        in addition, use other reliable sources such as certified 
        accounting statements, with respect to an applicant for a 
        covered grant to determine--
                    (A) the eligibility of the applicant for that 
                covered grant; and
                    (B) the amount of that covered grant to the 
                applicant.
            (3) Acceptance of applications.--Not later than 60 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator 
        shall begin accepting applications for covered grants.
    (c) Amount of Grant.--
            (1) Aggregate maximum amount.--The aggregate amount of 
        covered grants made to a border business and any affiliated 
        businesses of the border business shall not exceed $350,000.
            (2) Determination of amount of grant.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in this 
                subsection, the amount of a covered grant made to a 
                border business shall be equal to the difference 
                between--
                            (i) the pandemic-related revenue loss of 
                        the border business; and
                            (ii)(I) the amount equal to the product 
                        obtained by multiplying 3 by the average 
                        monthly gross receipts of the border business 
                        in 2019; or
                            (II) for a border business that did not 
                        have gross receipts in 2019, because the border 
                        business began operating between January 1, 
                        2020 and February 29, 2020 or due to other 
                        factors identified by the Administrator, an 
                        alternative amount based on a formula to be 
                        determined by the Administrator.
                    (B) Limitation.--A border business may not receive 
                a covered grant in an amount that is greater than--
                            (i) the amount equal to the product 
                        obtained by multiplying 6 by the average 
                        monthly gross receipts of the border business 
                        in 2019; or
                            (ii) if the border business was not in 
                        operation for the entirety of 2019, if the 
                        gross receipts of the border business during 
                        2019 were reduced due to other factors 
                        identified by the Administrator, or if the 
                        border business opened during the period 
                        beginning on January 1, 2020 and ending on 
                        February 29, 2020, an amount determined under a 
                        formula established by the Administrator.
                    (C) Minimum amount.--The Administrator may 
                establish a minimum amount of a covered grant in an 
                amount that is not more than $10,000.
                    (D) Return to sba.--Any amount of a covered grant 
                to a border business based on estimated receipts that 
                is greater than the actual gross receipts of the border 
                business in 2020 shall be returned to the 
                Administrator, who may use those returned funds to make 
                additional covered grants.
                    (E) Minimum allocation.--The Administrator shall 
                ensure that--
                            (i) not less than one-third of amounts made 
                        available to carry out this subtitle is used to 
                        make covered grants to border businesses 
                        located along the international border between 
                        the United States and Mexico, including 
                        colonias; and
                            (ii) not less than one-third of amounts 
                        made available to carry out this subtitle is 
                        used to make covered grants to border 
                        businesses located along the international 
                        border between the United States and Canada.
            (3) Insufficient funding.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Administrator determines 
                that the amounts made available to carry out this 
                subtitle are insufficient to make covered grants to 
                each border business in the amount provided under 
                paragraphs (1) and (2), the Administrator shall, in a 
                manner that maintains the minimum allocation 
                requirements under paragraph (2)(E)--
                            (i) make covered grants with the available 
                        amounts--
                                    (I) such that the amount of the 
                                covered grant that each border business 
                                would have otherwise received under 
                                those paragraphs is reduced by an equal 
                                percentage;
                                    (II) by establishing a maximum 
                                amount for a covered grant made under 
                                this clause to ensure that smaller 
                                border businesses still receive covered 
                                grants in the amounts provided under 
                                those paragraphs; or
                                    (III) by providing covered grants 
                                in the amounts provided under those 
                                paragraphs below a certain threshold 
                                (as the Administrator may establish) 
                                and reducing covered grants above that 
                                threshold by an equal percentage; and
                            (ii) in a manner that complies with clause 
                        (i), make covered grants to each border 
                        business that submits an application for a 
                        covered grant during the 21-day period 
                        beginning on the date on which the 
                        Administrator begins accepting those 
                        applications.
                    (B) Reserving funds.--Nothing in subparagraph (A) 
                shall prevent the Administrator from--
                            (i) reserving funding for applicants that 
                        may be determined to be eligible for a covered 
                        grant upon reconsideration; or
                            (ii) making partial awards to border 
                        businesses on a preliminary basis until the 
                        amount of funding required to fund covered 
                        grants to all border businesses that submit 
                        applications is established, upon the 
                        completion of the reconsideration process.
    (d) Use of Funds.--A border business may use amounts received under 
a covered grant for the following expenses incurred during the covered 
period as a direct result of, or during, the COVID-19 pandemic, 
including logistical expenses associated with border closures:
            (1) Payroll costs.
            (2) Payments to independent contractors, as reported on 
        Form 1099-MISC, except that each payment under this paragraph 
        shall be in an amount that is not more than $100,000.
            (3) Scheduled payments of interest or principal on any 
        covered mortgage obligation (which may not include any 
        prepayment of principal on a covered mortgage obligation).
            (4) Payments on any covered rent obligation and common area 
        maintenance charges under a lease agreement.
            (5) Covered utility payments.
            (6) Maintenance expenses.
            (7) Covered worker protection expenditures.
            (8) Supplies, including protective equipment and cleaning 
        materials.
            (9) Expenses that were within the scope of the normal 
        business practice of the border business before the covered 
        period.
            (10) Covered supplier costs.
            (11) Operational expenses.
            (12) Paid sick leave.
            (13) Costs associated with resuming or scaling up business 
        operations after COVID-19 pandemic-related border travel 
        restrictions have been lifted.
            (14) Workforce training or retraining expenses.
            (15) Any other expenses that the Administrator determines 
        to be essential to maintaining the border business.
    (e) Returning Funds.--If a border business that receives a covered 
grant fails to use all of the amounts received under the covered grant 
on or before the last day of the covered period or permanently ceases 
operations on or before the last day of the covered period, the border 
business shall return to the Treasury any funds that the border 
business did not use for the allowable expenses under subsection (d).

SEC. 234. OUTREACH.

    (a) In General.--In carrying out the program under this subtitle, 
the Administrator shall make grants to, or enter into contracts or 
cooperative agreements with, not fewer than 6 private nonprofit 
organizations, resource partners, States, Indian Tribes, or units of 
local government, including not fewer than 3 adjacent to the 
international border between the United States and Canada and not fewer 
than 3 adjacent to the international border between the United States 
and Mexico, under the authorities of the Community Navigator pilot 
program established under section 5004 of the American Rescue Plan Act 
(15 U.S.C. 9013) in order to improve access to assistance programs and 
resources made available by Federal, State, Tribal, and local entities 
in response to the COVID-19 pandemic, and related border travel 
restrictions.
    (b) Funding.--The Administrator shall set aside $10,000,000 from 
amounts in the Fund to make grants or enter into contracts or 
cooperative agreements under subsection (a).
    (c) Resource Partners.--In addition to the activities described in 
subsection (a), the Administrator shall, in partnership with entities 
participating in the Community Navigator pilot program established 
under section 5004 of the American Rescue Plan Act (15 U.S.C. 9013), 
small business development centers (as defined in section 3 of the 
Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632)), women's business centers described 
in section 29 of that Act (15 U.S.C. 656), Veteran Business Outreach 
Centers described in section 32 of that Act (15 U.S.C. 657b), and the 
Service Corps of Retired Executives established under section 
8(b)(1)(B) of that Act (15 U.S.C. 637(b)(1)(B))--
            (1) help make border businesses aware of the availability 
        of the program under this subtitle and promote engagement with 
        that program; and
            (2) provide technical assistance to applicants, including 
        instructions on how to participate in the program under this 
        subtitle, assistance in preparing applications for 
        participation in that program, and assistance in complying with 
        any reporting requirements established by the Administrator 
        with respect to that program.
    (d) Language Access.--The Administrator shall ensure that outreach 
and technical assistance activities described in this section are made 
available to border businesses in the 10 most commonly spoken 
languages, other than English, in the States of the United States that 
border the international boundary with Mexico or that border the 
international boundary with Canada, including in Spanish and in French.

    Subtitle D--Support for Live Venue Service and Support Companies

SEC. 241. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Affiliated business.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``affiliated business'' 
                means a business in which an eligible entity has an 
                equity or right to profit distributions of not less 
                than 50 percent, or in which an eligible entity has the 
                contractual authority to control the direction of the 
                business, provided that such affiliation shall be 
                determined as of any arrangements or agreements in 
                existence as of February 29, 2020.
                    (B) Regulations.--For purposes of eligibility for 
                covered grants--
                            (i) the provisions applicable to 
                        affiliations under section 121.301 of title 13, 
                        Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor 
                        regulation, are waived for any business concern 
                        operating as a franchise that is assigned a 
                        franchise identifier code by the 
                        Administration; and
                            (ii) the exceptions to affiliation noted in 
                        section 121.103(b) of title 13, Code of Federal 
                        Regulations, or any successor regulation, shall 
                        apply to an affiliated business.
            (2) Covered grant.--The term ``covered grant'' means a 
        grant under section 503 made to an eligible entity.
            (3) Covered period.--The term ``covered period'' means the 
        period--
                    (A) beginning on March 1, 2020; and
                    (B) ending on March 31, 2023, or a date to be 
                determined by the Administrator that is not later than 
                2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (4) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity''--
                    (A) means an individual or entity--
                            (i) that is assigned a North American 
                        Industry Classification System code of 532289, 
                        532490, 541410, 541420, 541430, 541490, 561591, 
                        561920, 711190, 711300, or 711320, as appears 
                        on the most recent income tax filing or on the 
                        application for a loan under paragraph (36) or 
                        (37) of section 7(a) of the Small Business Act 
                        (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) of the individual or entity, 
                        if applicable; and
                            (ii)(I)(aa) that, as the principal business 
                        of the individual or entity, provides stages, 
                        lighting, sound, casts, or other support for 
                        live events; and
                            (bb) for which not less than 65 percent of 
                        the earned revenue generated through providing 
                        the support described in item (aa) is for live 
                        events organized, promoted, produced, managed, 
                        or hosted by an eligible person or entity 
                        described in section 324(a)(1)(A)(iii) of the 
                        Economic Aid to Hard-Hit Small Businesses, 
                        Nonprofits, and Venues Act (15 U.S.C. 
                        9009a(a)(1)(A)(iii)); or
                            (II)(aa) as the principal business of the 
                        individual or entity, showcases performers or 
                        pre-packaged productions to potential buyers; 
                        and
                            (bb) for which not less than 65 percent of 
                        the earned revenue generated through showcasing 
                        performers or pre-packaged productions 
                        described in item (aa) is for live events--
                                    (AA) organized, promoted, produced, 
                                managed, or hosted by an eligible 
                                person or entity described in section 
                                324(a)(1)(A)(iii) of the Economic Aid 
                                to Hard-Hit Small Businesses, 
                                Nonprofits, and Venues Act (15 U.S.C. 
                                9009a(a)(1)(A)(iii)); or
                                    (BB) hosted in a hotel or 
                                convention center facility;
                    (B) includes an individual or entity described in 
                subparagraph (A) that--
                            (i) operates for profit;
                            (ii) is a Tribally-owned concern; or
                            (iii) is a corporation, limited liability 
                        company, or partnership or operated as a sole 
                        proprietorship; and
                    (C) does not include--
                            (i) an individual or entity described in 
                        subparagraph (A) that--
                                    (I) employs more than 250 
                                employees, determined on a full-time 
                                equivalency basis;
                                    (II) is registered outside of the 
                                United States; or
                                    (III) has pandemic-related revenue 
                                losses that are not greater than 25 
                                percent;
                            (ii) an entity described in subparagraph 
                        (A) that--
                                    (I) is a State or local government-
                                operated business;
                                    (II) as of February 29, 2020, owns 
                                or operates (together with any 
                                affiliated business) more than 5 
                                locations, regardless of whether those 
                                locations do business under the same or 
                                multiple names; or
                                    (III) has a pending application 
                                for, or has received, a grant under--
                                            (aa) section 324 of the 
                                        Economic Aid to Hard Hit Small 
                                        Businesses, Nonprofits, and 
                                        Venues Act (15 U.S.C. 9009a); 
                                        or
                                            (bb) section 5003 of the 
                                        American Rescue Plan Act of 
                                        2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c);
                            (iii) a publicly-traded company;
                            (iv) an entity that is owned or operated by 
                        a private equity fund;
                            (v) an entity that was not in operation 
                        before March 1, 2020; or
                            (vi) an entity that is not in operation on, 
                        and does not intend to reopen on or before the 
                        date that is 180 days after, the date on which 
                        the entity applies for a covered grant.
            (5) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the Live Venue Service 
        and Support Business Relief Fund established under section 
        242(a)(1).
            (6) Pandemic-related revenue loss.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                term ``pandemic-related revenue loss'' means, with 
                respect to an eligible entity--
                            (i) except as provided in clauses (ii) and 
                        (iii), the gross receipts, as established using 
                        such verification documentation as the 
                        Administrator may require, of the eligible 
                        entity during 2020 subtracted from the gross 
                        receipts of the eligible entity in 2019, if 
                        such amount is greater than zero, except that 
                        the Administrator may make adjustments to this 
                        formula as needed for seasonal businesses, 
                        businesses affected by natural disasters, and 
                        to address other circumstances identified by 
                        the Administrator requiring accommodation;
                            (ii) if the eligible entity was not in 
                        operation for the entirety of 2019--
                                    (I) the difference, if greater than 
                                zero, between--
                                            (aa) the product obtained 
                                        by multiplying the average 
                                        monthly gross receipts of the 
                                        eligible entity in 2019 by 12; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) the product obtained 
                                        by multiplying the average 
                                        monthly gross receipts of the 
                                        eligible entity in 2020 by 12; 
                                        or
                                    (II) an amount based on a formula 
                                determined by the Administrator; and
                            (iii) if the eligible entity opened during 
                        the period beginning on January 1, 2020 and 
                        ending on February 29, 2020, an amount based on 
                        a formula determined by the Administrator.
                    (B) Reduction.--
                            (i) In general.--The pandemic-related 
                        revenue losses for an eligible entity shall be 
                        reduced by--
                                    (I) any amounts received from a 
                                covered loan made under paragraph (36) 
                                or (37) of section 7(a) of the Small 
                                Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) in 2020 
                                or 2021; and
                                    (II) the amount by which the total 
                                of all remunerative payments made to an 
                                individual, including any annual salary 
                                paid to an employee, in 2020 exceeds 
                                $250,000.
                            (ii) Administrator authority.--The 
                        Administrator may determine the types of 
                        payments and individuals to which clause 
                        (i)(II) applies.

SEC. 242. LIVE VENUE SERVICE AND SUPPORT BUSINESS RELIEF FUND.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established within the Restaurant 
        Revitalization Fund established under section 5003 of the 
        American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c) a fund to be 
        known as the Live Venue Service and Support Business Relief 
        Fund.
            (2) Use of funds.--Subject to section 266, the 
        Administrator may use amounts in the Fund only for the purposes 
        described in this subtitle and not for any purpose described in 
        section 5003 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 
        9009c).
    (b) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Fund for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $2,000,000,000, to 
remain available until expended.

SEC. 243. GRANTS FROM FUND.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (c)(3), the 
Administrator shall make covered grants to eligible entities in the 
order in which applications are received by the Administrator.
    (b) Applications.--
            (1) Certification.--An eligible entity applying for a 
        covered grant shall make a good faith certification that--
                    (A) the uncertainty of current economic conditions 
                makes necessary the request for the covered grant to 
                support the ongoing operations of the eligible entity;
                    (B) the eligible entity does not have a pending 
                application for, and has not received, a grant under--
                            (i) section 324 of the Economic Aid to 
                        Hard-Hit Small Businesses, Nonprofits, and 
                        Venues Act (15 U.S.C. 9009a); or
                            (ii) section 5003 of the American Rescue 
                        Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c); and
                    (C) contains any other information that the 
                Administrator may require.
            (2) Verification materials.--Subject to section 
        241(6)(A)(i), the Administrator shall use tax records, and may, 
        in addition, use other reliable sources such as certified 
        accounting statements, with respect to an applicant for a 
        covered grant to determine--
                    (A) the eligibility of the applicant for that 
                covered grant; and
                    (B) the amount of that covered grant to the 
                applicant.
            (3) Acceptance of applications.--Not later than 60 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator 
        shall begin accepting applications for covered grants.
    (c) Amount of Grant.--
            (1) Aggregate maximum amount.--The aggregate amount of 
        covered grants made to an eligible entity and any affiliated 
        businesses of the eligible entity shall not exceed $2,000,000.
            (2) Determination of amount of grant.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in this 
                subsection, the amount of a covered grant made to an 
                eligible entity shall be equal to the difference 
                between--
                            (i) the pandemic-related revenue loss of 
                        the eligible entity; and
                            (ii)(I) the amount equal to the product 
                        obtained by multiplying 3 by the average 
                        monthly gross receipts of the eligible entity 
                        in 2019; or
                            (II) for an eligible entity that did not 
                        have gross receipts in 2019, because the 
                        eligible entity began operating between January 
                        1, 2020 and February 29, 2020 or due to other 
                        factors identified by the Administrator, an 
                        alternative amount based on a formula to be 
                        determined by the Administrator.
                    (B) Limitation.--An eligible entity may not receive 
                a covered grant in an amount that is greater than--
                            (i) the amount equal to the product 
                        obtained by multiplying 6 by the average 
                        monthly gross receipts of the eligible entity 
                        in 2019; or
                            (ii) if the eligible entity was not in 
                        operation for the entirety of 2019, if the 
                        gross receipts of the eligible entity during 
                        2019 were reduced due to other factors 
                        identified by the Administrator, or if the 
                        eligible entity opened during the period 
                        beginning on January 1, 2020 and ending on 
                        February 29, 2020, an amount determined under a 
                        formula established by the Administrator.
                    (C) Minimum amount.--The Administrator may 
                establish a minimum amount of a covered grant in an 
                amount that is not more than $10,000.
                    (D) Return to sba.--Any amount of a covered grant 
                to an eligible entity based on estimated receipts that 
                is greater than the actual gross receipts of the 
                eligible entity in 2020 shall be returned to the 
                Administrator, who may use those returned funds to make 
                additional covered grants.
            (3) Insufficient funding.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Administrator determines 
                that the amounts made available to carry out this 
                subtitle are insufficient to make covered grants to 
                each eligible entity in the amount provided under 
                paragraphs (1) and (2), the Administrator shall--
                            (i) make covered grants with the available 
                        amounts--
                                    (I) such that the amount of the 
                                covered grant that each such eligible 
                                entity would have otherwise received 
                                under those paragraphs is reduced by an 
                                equal percentage;
                                    (II) by establishing a maximum 
                                amount for a covered grant made under 
                                this clause to ensure that smaller 
                                eligible entities still receive covered 
                                grants in the amounts provided under 
                                those paragraphs; or
                                    (III) by providing covered grants 
                                in the amounts provided under those 
                                paragraphs below a certain threshold 
                                (as the Administrator may establish) 
                                and reducing covered grants above that 
                                threshold by an equal percentage; and
                            (ii) in a manner that complies with clause 
                        (i), make covered grants to each eligible 
                        entity that submits an application for a 
                        covered grant during the 21-day period 
                        beginning on the date on which the 
                        Administrator begins accepting those 
                        applications.
                    (B) Reserving funds.--Nothing in subparagraph (A) 
                shall prevent the Administrator from--
                            (i) reserving funding for applicants that 
                        may be determined to be eligible for a covered 
                        grant upon reconsideration; or
                            (ii) making partial awards to eligible 
                        entities on a preliminary basis until the 
                        amount of funding required to fund covered 
                        grants to all eligible entities that submit 
                        applications is established, upon the 
                        completion of the reconsideration process.
    (d) Use of Funds.--During the covered period, an eligible entity 
that receives a covered grant may use amounts received under the 
covered grant for the following expenses incurred as a direct result 
of, or during, the COVID-19 pandemic:
            (1) Payroll costs.
            (2) Payments to independent contractors, as reported on 
        Form 1099-MISC, except that each payment under this paragraph 
        shall be in an amount that is not more than $100,000.
            (3) Scheduled payments of interest or principal on any 
        covered mortgage obligation (which may not include any 
        prepayment of principal on a covered mortgage obligation).
            (4) Payments on any covered rent obligation and common area 
        maintenance charges under a lease agreement.
            (5) Covered utility payments.
            (6) Maintenance expenses.
            (7) Covered worker protection expenditures.
            (8) Supplies, including protective equipment and cleaning 
        materials.
            (9) Expenses that were within the scope of the normal 
        business practice of the eligible entity before the covered 
        period.
            (10) Covered supplier costs.
            (11) Operational expenses.
            (12) Paid sick leave.
            (13) Any other expenses that the Administrator determines 
        to be essential to maintaining the eligible entity.
    (e) Returning Funds.--If an eligible entity that receives a covered 
grant fails to use all of the amounts received under the covered grant 
on or before the last day of the covered period or permanently ceases 
operations on or before the last day of the covered period, the 
eligible entity shall return to the Treasury any funds that the 
eligible entity did not use for the allowable expenses under subsection 
(d).

       Subtitle E--Support for Exclave Community Small Businesses

SEC. 251. DEFINITIONS.

    In this subtitle:
            (1) Affiliated business.--
                    (A) In general.--The term ``affiliated business'' 
                means a business in which an eligible entity has an 
                equity or right to profit distributions of not less 
                than 50 percent, or in which an eligible entity has the 
                contractual authority to control the direction of the 
                business, provided that such affiliation shall be 
                determined as of any arrangements or agreements in 
                existence as of February 29, 2020.
                    (B) Regulations.--For purposes of eligibility for 
                covered grants--
                            (i) the provisions applicable to 
                        affiliations under section 121.301 of title 13, 
                        Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor 
                        regulation, are waived for any business concern 
                        operating as a franchise that is assigned a 
                        franchise identifier code by the 
                        Administration; and
                            (ii) the exceptions to affiliation noted in 
                        section 121.103(b) of title 13, Code of Federal 
                        Regulations, or any successor regulation, shall 
                        apply to an affiliated business.
            (2) Covered grant.--The term ``covered grant'' means a 
        grant under section 253 made to an eligible entity
            (3) Covered period.--The term ``covered period'' means the 
        period--
                    (A) beginning on March 1, 2020; and
                    (B) ending on March 31, 2023, or a date to be 
                determined by the Administrator that is not later than 
                2 years after the date of enactment of this Act.
            (4) Exclave.--The term ``exclave'' means an area that is--
                    (A) located in the United States;
                    (B) within 75 miles of the international border 
                between the United States and Canada; and
                    (C) only accessible by land via Canada.
            (5) Eligible entity.--The term ``eligible entity''--
                    (A) means a small business concern (as defined in 
                section 3 of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 632)) 
                that--
                            (i) is located in an exclave; and
                            (ii) certifies, and, if requested by the 
                        Administrator, demonstrates, that the closure 
                        of the international border between the United 
                        States and Canada--
                                    (I) directly resulted in a 
                                reduction in the gross receipts of the 
                                eligible entity; or
                                    (II) restricted the ability of 
                                customers to access the location of the 
                                small business concern; and
                    (B) does not include--
                            (i) an entity with pandemic-related revenue 
                        losses that are not greater than 25 percent;
                            (ii) an entity described in subparagraph 
                        (A) that--
                                    (I) is a State or local government-
                                operated business;
                                    (II) as of March 1, 2020, owns or 
                                operates (together with any affiliated 
                                business) more than 10 locations, 
                                regardless of whether those locations 
                                do business under the same or multiple 
                                names; or
                                    (III) has a pending application for 
                                or has received a grant under--
                                            (aa) section 324 of the 
                                        Economic Aid to Hard Hit Small 
                                        Businesses, Nonprofits, and 
                                        Venues Act (15 U.S.C. 9009a); 
                                        or
                                            (bb) section 5003 of the 
                                        American Rescue Plan Act of 
                                        2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c);
                            (iii) a publicly-traded company;
                            (iv) an entity that is owned or operated by 
                        a private equity fund;
                            (v) an entity that was not in operation 
                        before March 1, 2020; or
                            (vi) an entity that is not in operation on, 
                        and does not intend to reopen on or before the 
                        date that is 180 days after, the date on which 
                        the entity applies for a covered grant.
            (6) Fund.--The term ``Fund'' means the Exclave Community 
        Small Business Relief Fund established under section 252(a)(1).
            (7) Pandemic-related revenue loss.--
                    (A) In general.--Subject to subparagraph (B), the 
                term ``pandemic-related revenue loss'' means, with 
                respect to an eligible entity--
                            (i) except as provided in clauses (ii) and 
                        (iii), the gross receipts, as established using 
                        such verification documentation as the 
                        Administrator may require, of the eligible 
                        entity during 2020 subtracted from the gross 
                        receipts of the eligible entity in 2019, if 
                        such amount is greater than zero, except that 
                        the Administrator may make adjustments to this 
                        formula as needed for seasonal businesses, 
                        businesses affected by natural disasters, and 
                        to address other circumstances identified by 
                        the Administrator requiring accommodation;
                            (ii) if the eligible entity was not in 
                        operation for the entirety of 2019--
                                    (I) the difference, if greater than 
                                zero, between--
                                            (aa) the product obtained 
                                        by multiplying the average 
                                        monthly gross receipts of the 
                                        eligible entity in 2019 by 12; 
                                        and
                                            (bb) the product obtained 
                                        by multiplying the average 
                                        monthly gross receipts of the 
                                        eligible entity in 2020 by 12; 
                                        or
                                    (II) an amount based on a formula 
                                determined by the Administrator; and
                            (iii) if the eligible entity opened during 
                        the period beginning on January 1, 2020, and 
                        ending on February 29, 2020, an amount based on 
                        a formula determined by the Administrator.
                    (B) Reduction.--
                            (i) In general.--The pandemic-related 
                        revenue losses for an eligible entity shall be 
                        reduced by--
                                    (I) any amounts received from a 
                                covered loan made under paragraph (36) 
                                or (37) of section 7(a) of the Small 
                                Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636(a)) in 2020 
                                or 2021; and
                                    (II) the amount by which the total 
                                of all remunerative payments made to an 
                                individual, including any annual salary 
                                paid to an employee, in 2020 exceeds 
                                $250,000.
                            (ii) Administrator authority.--The 
                        Administrator may determine the types of 
                        payments and individuals to which clause 
                        (i)(II) applies.

SEC. 252. EXCLAVE COMMUNITY SMALL BUSINESS RELIEF FUND.

    (a) Establishment.--
            (1) In general.--There is established within the Restaurant 
        Revitalization Fund established under section 5003 of the 
        American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c) a fund to be 
        known as the Exclave Community Small Business Relief Fund.
            (2) Use of funds.--Subject to section 266, the 
        Administrator may use amounts in the Fund only for the purposes 
        described in this subtitle and not for any purpose described in 
        section 5003 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 
        9009c).
    (b) Appropriations.--In addition to amounts otherwise available, 
there is appropriated to the Fund for fiscal year 2022, out of any 
money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $85,000,000, to 
remain available until expended, of which $75,000,000 shall be 
available for eligible entities located in exclaves adjacent to the 
border between Alaska and Canada and $10,000,000 shall be available to 
exclaves adjacent to the border between the continental United States 
and Canada.

SEC. 253. GRANTS FROM FUND.

    (a) In General.--Except as provided in subsection (c)(3)(B), the 
Administrator shall make covered grants to eligible entities in the 
order in which applications are received by the Administrator.
    (b) Applications.--
            (1) Certification.--An eligible entity applying for a 
        covered grant shall make a good faith certification that--
                    (A) the uncertainty of current economic conditions 
                makes necessary the request for the covered grant to 
                support the ongoing operations of the eligible entity;
                    (B) closure of the international border between the 
                United States and Canada--
                            (i) directly resulted in a reduction in the 
                        gross receipts of the eligible entity; or
                            (ii) restricted the ability of customers to 
                        access the location of the covered business;
                    (C) the eligible entity does not have a pending 
                application for, and has not received, a grant under--
                            (i) section 324 of the Economic Aid to 
                        Hard-Hit Small Businesses, Nonprofits, and 
                        Venues Act (15 U.S.C. 9009a); or
                            (ii) section 5003 of the American Rescue 
                        Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c); and
                    (D) contains any other information that the 
                Administrator may require.
            (2) Verification materials.--Subject to section 
        251(7)(A)(i), the Administrator shall use tax records, and may, 
        in addition, use other reliable sources such as certified 
        accounting statements, with respect to an applicant for a 
        covered grant to determine--
                    (A) the eligibility of the applicant for that 
                covered grant; and
                    (B) the amount of that covered grant to the 
                applicant.
            (3) Acceptance of applications.--Not later than 60 days 
        after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator 
        shall begin accepting applications for covered grants.
    (c) Amount of Grant.--
            (1) Aggregate maximum amount.--The aggregate amount of 
        covered grants made to an eligible entity and any affiliated 
        businesses of the eligible entity shall not exceed $3,000,000.
            (2) Determination of amount of grant.--
                    (A) In general.--Except as provided in section 
                252(b) and in this subsection, the amount of a covered 
                grant made to an eligible entity shall be equal to the 
                difference between--
                            (i) the pandemic-related revenue loss of 
                        the eligible entity; and
                            (ii)(I) the amount equal to the product 
                        obtained by multiplying 3 by the average 
                        monthly gross receipts of the eligible entity 
                        in 2019; or
                            (II) for an eligible entity that did not 
                        have gross receipts in 2019, because the 
                        eligible entity began operating between January 
                        1, 2020 and February 29, 2020 or due to other 
                        factors identified by the Administrator, an 
                        alternative amount based on a formula to be 
                        determined by the Administrator.
                    (B) Minimum amount.--The Administrator may 
                establish a minimum amount of a covered grant in an 
                amount that is not more than $10,000.
                    (C) Return to sba.--Any amount of a covered grant 
                to an eligible entity based on estimated receipts that 
                is greater than the actual gross receipts of the 
                eligible entity in 2020 shall be returned to the 
                Administrator, who may use those returned funds to make 
                additional covered grants.
            (3) Insufficient funding.--
                    (A) In general.--If the Administrator determines 
                that the amounts made available to carry out this 
                subtitle are insufficient to make covered grants to 
                each eligible entity in the amount provided under 
                paragraphs (1) and (2) and in accordance with the 
                allocations under section 252(b), the Administrator 
                shall--
                            (i) make covered grants with the available 
                        amounts--
                                    (I) such that the amount of the 
                                covered grant that each such eligible 
                                entity would have otherwise received 
                                under those paragraphs is reduced by an 
                                equal percentage;
                                    (II) by establishing a maximum 
                                amount for a covered grant made under 
                                this clause to ensure that smaller 
                                eligible entities still receive covered 
                                grants in the amounts provided under 
                                those paragraphs; or
                                    (III) by providing covered grants 
                                in the amounts provided under those 
                                paragraphs below a certain threshold 
                                (as the Administrator may establish) 
                                and reducing covered grants above that 
                                threshold by an equal percentage; and
                            (ii) in a manner that complies with clause 
                        (i), make covered grants to each eligible 
                        entity that submits an application for a 
                        covered grant during the 21-day period 
                        beginning on the date on which the 
                        Administrator begins accepting those 
                        applications.
                    (B) Reserving funds.--Nothing in subparagraph (A) 
                shall prevent the Administrator from--
                            (i) reserving funding for applicants that 
                        may be determined to be eligible for a covered 
                        grant upon reconsideration; or
                            (ii) making partial awards to eligible 
                        entities on a preliminary basis until the 
                        amount of funding required to fund covered 
                        grants to all eligible entities that submit 
                        applications is established, upon the 
                        completion of the reconsideration process.
    (d) Use of Funds.--
            (1) Permitted uses.--During the covered period, an eligible 
        entity that receives a covered grant may use amounts received 
        under the covered grant for the following expenses incurred as 
        a direct result of, or during, the COVID-19 pandemic:
                    (A) Payroll costs.
                    (B) Payments to independent contractors, as 
                reported on Form 1099-MISC, except that each payment 
                under this subparagraph shall be in an amount that is 
                not more than $100,000.
                    (C) Scheduled payments of interest or principal on 
                any covered mortgage obligation (which may not include 
                any prepayment of principal on a covered mortgage 
                obligation).
                    (D) Payments on any covered rent obligation and 
                common area maintenance charges under a lease 
                agreement.
                    (E) Covered utility payments.
                    (F) Maintenance expenses.
                    (G) Covered worker protection expenditures.
                    (H) Supplies, including protective equipment and 
                cleaning materials.
                    (I) Expenses that were within the scope of the 
                normal business practice of the eligible entity before 
                the covered period.
                    (J) Covered supplier costs.
                    (K) Operational expenses.
                    (L) Paid sick leave.
                    (M) Any other expenses that the Administrator 
                determines to be essential to maintaining the eligible 
                entity.
            (2) Prohibited uses.--An eligible entity may not use 
        amounts received under a covered grant for expenses incurred by 
        the eligible entity outside the exclave, including those 
        expenses incurred by related or affiliated businesses located 
        outside the exclave.
    (e) Returning Funds.--If an eligible entity that receives a covered 
grant fails to use all of the amounts received under the covered grant 
on or before the last day of the covered period or permanently ceases 
operations on or before the last day of the covered period, the 
eligible entity shall return to the Treasury any funds that the 
eligible entity did not use for the allowable expenses under subsection 
(d).

   Subtitle F--Administration and Implementation of Support Programs

SEC. 261 DEFINITION.

    In this subtitle, the term ``covered program'' means a program for 
which grants are authorized under this title.

SEC. 262. DATA TRANSPARENCY AND CUSTOMER SERVICE.

    The Administrator shall--
            (1) in carrying out each covered program, maintain regular 
        communication during the period during which the covered 
        program is in effect with applicants and their representatives, 
        including by--
                    (A) hosting regularly scheduled information 
                sessions with applicants and their representatives; and
                    (B) providing opportunities to applicants and their 
                representatives to submit and receive answers to 
                questions regarding covered programs;
            (2) for each covered program, on a bi-weekly basis until 
        the amounts made available under this title for the covered 
        program are fully expended, publish data that shows, for the 
        period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and 
        ending on the date on which the information is published--
                    (A) with respect to applications for grants under 
                each covered program, the number of those 
                applications--
                            (i) that the Administrator has received;
                            (ii) that the Administrator has reviewed or 
                        is in the process of reviewing; and
                            (iii) with respect to which the 
                        Administrator has made a decision; and
                    (B) the number and dollar amount of grants under 
                each covered program--
                            (i) that are awarded; and
                            (ii) that are disbursed;
            (3) for each covered program, on a weekly basis until the 
        amounts made available under this title to carry out the 
        covered program are fully expended, publish, with respect to 
        the period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and 
        ending on the date on which the information is published--
                    (A) with respect to each entity to which a grant 
                has been made under the covered program--
                            (i) the name of the entity, including the 
                        name under which the entity does business if 
                        that name is different from the name of the 
                        entity;
                            (ii) the address of the entity; and
                            (iii) if the physical location for the 
                        eligible business listed on the application is 
                        different from the address of the entity, the 
                        address of such physical location; and
                    (B) the amount of each grant described in 
                subparagraph (A); and
            (4) with respect to an applicant that applies for a grant 
        under a covered program and is denied by the Administrator--
                    (A) make available to the applicant a brief 
                explanation identifying the reason why the 
                Administrator denied the application of the applicant, 
                which shall include, where applicable, a citation to 
                the statutory, regulatory, or guidance provision with 
                which the applicant failed to comply and that was the 
                basis for the denial; and
                    (B) establish a reconsideration process through 
                which the applicant may--
                            (i) submit to the Administrator additional 
                        clarifying information the applicant determines 
                        to be relevant to whether the applicant is 
                        eligible for the grant;
                            (ii) challenge the decision of the 
                        Administrator; and
                            (iii) receive a second review of the 
                        application submitted by the applicant.

SEC. 263. BUSINESS IDENTIFIERS.

    In accepting applications for grants under a covered program, the 
Administrator shall prioritize the ability of each applicant to use the 
existing business identifier of the applicant over requiring other 
forms of registration or identification that may not be common to the 
industry of the applicant, which may impose additional burdens on the 
applicant.

SEC. 264. APPLICATIONS.

    (a) Expedited Processing and Approval Authority.--
            (1) In general.--The Director of the Office of Management 
        and Budget may, on an emergency basis, and in order to expedite 
        the processing and approval of applications for grants under a 
        covered program, waive the requirements of part 200 of title 2, 
        Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulations, with 
        respect to the covered program if--
                    (A) the Director finds that such a waiver will 
                prevent entities eligible for grants under the covered 
                program from failing or suffering undue hardship; and
                    (B) each entity that receives a grant under the 
                covered program is still required to report to the 
                Administrator on the use by the entity of the amounts 
                received under the grant.
            (2) Continuity.--To the extent practicable, the Director of 
        the Office of Management and Budget shall prioritize 
        administrative continuity for covered programs with the 
        Restaurant Revitalization Fund authorized in section 5003 of 
        the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c).
    (b) Limitation on Denial Based on Denial for Other SBA Programs.--
The Administrator may not deny an application by an entity for a grant 
under a covered program solely on the basis that an application by the 
entity for another program of the Small Business Administration, 
including the program under section 5003 of the American Rescue Plan 
Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c), was denied.

SEC. 265. PROHIBITION ON PARTICIPATION IN MULTIPLE PROGRAMS.

    (a) In General.--An entity may not receive a grant under more than 
1 covered program or receive a grant under a covered program and a 
grant under title IV.
    (b) Withdrawal of Pending Applications.--
            (1) Definition.--In this subsection, the term ``covered 
        application'' means an application for a grant under--
                    (A) a covered program;
                    (B) the program under section 5003 of the American 
                Rescue Plan Act of 2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009c); or
                    (C) the program under section 324 of the Economic 
                Aid to Hard Hit Small Businesses, Nonprofits, and 
                Venues Act (15 U.S.C. 9009a).
            (2) Withdrawal.--An entity that has a pending covered 
        application may submit a covered application with respect to 
        another program if, at or before the time that the entity 
        submits the covered application with respect to another 
        program, the entity withdraws the pending covered application.

SEC. 266. TRANSFER OF FUNDS.

    (a) Authority.--
            (1) In general.--Subject to paragraph (2), on and after the 
        date that is 30 days after the date on which the Administrator 
        begins accepting applications under a covered program, the 
        Administrator may transfer amounts made available under this 
        title for that covered program to the fund established under 
        this title for another covered program.
            (2) Limitation.--The Administrator may not transfer amounts 
        made available under this title for a covered program if the 
        Administrator determines that the amounts made available to 
        carry out that covered program are insufficient to make grants 
        to each eligible entity in the amount specified with respect to 
        that covered program.
    (b) Use of Transferred Funds.--Any amounts transferred under 
subsection (a) shall be merged with, and available for the same 
purposes as, other amounts in the fund to which the amounts are 
transferred.

SEC. 267. OVERSIGHT AND AUDITS.

    (a) In General.--The Administrator shall institute an oversight and 
audit plan with respect to entities receiving grants under a covered 
program, which shall include--
            (1) documentation requirements that are consistent with the 
        eligibility and other requirements under the applicable covered 
        program, including by requiring an entity that receives a grant 
        under the covered program to retain records that demonstrate 
        compliance with those requirements; and
            (2) reviews of the use by entities of grants made under the 
        applicable covered program to ensure compliance with the 
        requirements under that covered program, which shall include--
                    (A) the review and audit, by the Administrator, of 
                grants made under that covered program; and
                    (B) in the case of fraud or other material 
                noncompliance with respect to a grant made under that 
                covered program--
                            (i) a requirement that the applicable 
                        entity repay to the Administrator the amount of 
                        the misspent funds; or
                            (ii) the pursuit, by the Administrator, of 
                        legal action to collect the misspent funds.
    (b) Submission of Plan.--Not later than 45 days after the date of 
enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee 
on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee 
on Small Business of the House of Representatives the plan required 
under subsection (a), which shall describe--
            (1) the policies and procedures of the Administrator for 
        conducting oversight and audits of grants made under the 
        covered programs; and
            (2) the metrics that the Administrator will use to 
        determine which grants made under a covered program will be 
        audited under that plan.
    (c) Reports.--Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of 
this Act, once every 30 days thereafter until the date that is 180 days 
after the date on which all amounts made available to carry out covered 
programs have been fully expended, and upon request thereafter, the 
Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Small Business and 
Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of 
the House of Representatives a report on the oversight and audit 
activities of the Administrator under this section, which shall 
include--
            (1) the total number of grants approved and disbursed under 
        each covered program;
            (2) the total amount of each grant under each covered 
        program received by each entity that received such a payment;
            (3) the number of active investigations and audits of 
        grants made under each covered program;
            (4) the number of completed reviews and audits of grants 
        made under each covered program, including a description of--
                    (A) any findings of fraud or other material 
                noncompliance with the requirements of the applicable 
                covered program;
                    (B) questionable costs identified by the 
                Administrator; and
                    (C) the total amount recouped from ineligible 
                recipients; and
            (5) a description of any substantial changes made to the 
        plan required under subsection (a).

SEC. 268. ADMINISTRATIVE FUNDING.

    In addition to amounts otherwise available, there is appropriated 
to the Administrator for fiscal year 2022, out of any money in the 
Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to remain available until 
expended, $150,000,000 for administrative expenses to carry out the 
covered programs, of which, $20,000,000 shall be for the Inspector 
General of the Small Business Administration for necessary expenses of 
the Office of Inspector General.

SEC. 269. GROSS RECEIPTS.

    For each covered program, the Administrator may authorize 
applicants for grants under the covered program to measure annual gross 
receipts using either the calendar year or fiscal year.

SEC. 270. RULES.

    Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the 
Administrator shall issue rules to carry out each covered program, 
without regard to the notice requirements under section 553(b) of title 
5, United States Code.

               TITLE III--OTHER SBA PROGRAM IMPROVEMENTS

SEC. 301. SHUTTERED VENUE OPERATORS.

    (a) In General.--Section 324(d) of title III of division N of the 
Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009a(d)) is amended 
by striking paragraph (1) and inserting the following:
            ``(1) Timing.--
                    ``(A) Expenses incurred.--Amounts received under a 
                grant under this section may be used for costs incurred 
                during the period beginning on March 1, 2020, and 
                ending on March 11, 2023.
                    ``(B) Expenditure.--An eligible person or entity 
                shall return to the Administrator any amounts received 
                under a grant under this section that are not expended 
                on or before April 15, 2023, with respect to costs 
                incurred during the period described in subparagraph 
                (A).''.
    (b) Applicability.--The amendment made by subsection (a) shall 
apply to grants made under section 324 of title III of division N of 
the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (15 U.S.C. 9009a) before, on, 
or after the date of enactment of this Act.

SEC. 302. TREATMENT OF PAYCHECK PROTECTION PROGRAM LOAN FORGIVENESS OF 
              PAYROLL COSTS UNDER HIGHWAY AND PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION 
              PROJECT COST REIMBURSEMENT CONTRACTS.

    (a) In General.--Notwithstanding section 31.201-5 of title 48, Code 
of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations), for the purposes of 
any cost-reimbursement contract awarded in accordance with section 112 
of title 23, United States Code, or section 5325 of title 49, United 
States Code, or any subcontract under such a contract, no cost 
reduction or cash refund (including through a reduced indirect cost 
rate) shall be due to the Department of Transportation or to a State 
transportation department, transit agency, or other recipient of 
assistance under chapter 1 of title 23, United States Code, or chapter 
53 of title 49, United States Code, on the basis of forgiveness of the 
payroll costs of a covered loan (as those terms are defined in section 
7A(a) of the Small Business Act (15 U.S.C. 636m(a))) issued under the 
paycheck protection program under section 7(a)(36) of that Act (15 
U.S.C. 636(a)(36)).
    (b) Rule of Construction.--Nothing in this section shall be 
construed to amend or exempt the prohibitions and liability under 
section 3729 of title 31, United States Code, (relating to false 
claims).
    (c) Termination.--This section shall cease to have force or effect 
on June 30, 2025.

                   TITLE IV--TRANSPORTATION SERVICES

SEC. 401. ADDITIONAL ASSISTANCE FOR ELIGIBLE PROVIDERS OF 
              TRANSPORTATION SERVICES AFFECTED BY COVID-19.

    (a) Definitions.--In this section:
            (1) CERTS act.--The term ``CERTS Act'' means subtitle B of 
        title IV of division N of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 
        2021 (Public Law 116-260).
            (2) Provider of transportation services.--The term 
        ``provider of transportation services'' has the meaning given 
        the term in section 421(a) of the CERTS Act.
            (3) Secretary.--The term ``Secretary'' means the Secretary 
        of the Treasury.
    (b) Appropriation.--In addition to amounts otherwise made 
available, there is appropriated for fiscal year 2022, out of any money 
in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $2,000,000,000, to remain 
available until expended, to provide additional funding for grants 
under the CERTS Act.
    (c) Payments.--
            (1) Eligible entities.--The Secretary shall provide the 
        funds made available by subsection (b) to providers of 
        transportation services that--
                    (A) as of the date of enactment of this Act--
                            (i) have been determined to be eligible 
                        under the CERTS Act; and
                            (ii) are in compliance with the applicable 
                        terms and conditions of the CERTS Act; or
                    (B) on or after the date of enactment of this Act, 
                are determined to be eligible under the terms and 
                conditions described in subparagraph (A)(ii).
            (2) Calculation.--A payment provided under this subsection 
        shall be calculated using the same methodology as is used for 
        the distribution of funds under the CERTS Act.
            (3) Return of unused amounts.--A provider of transportation 
        services shall return to the Secretary any funds provided under 
        this subsection that are not used by the provider of 
        transportation services by the date that is 1 year after the 
        date of receipt of the funds.
    (d) Administration.--
            (1) In general.--The Secretary shall have the authorities 
        provided by the CERTS Act with respect to the funds made 
        available by subsection (b).
            (2) Administrative expenses.--Of the funds made available 
        by subsection (b), not more than $50,000,000 may be used by the 
        Secretary for the costs of administering this section and the 
        CERTS Act.

                            TITLE V--OFFSETS

SEC. 501. OFFSETTING RESCISSIONS.

    (a) In General.--Of the unobligated balances from amounts made 
available under the heading ``Small Business Administration--Business 
Loans Program Account, CARES Act'' in section 323(d)(1)(A) of division 
N of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 (Public Law 116-260; 134 
Stat. 2019) for the cost of guaranteed loans as authorized under 
paragraphs (36) and (37) of section 7(a) of the Small Business Act (15 
U.S.C. 636(a)), $2,982,000,000 are hereby permanently rescinded.
    (b) CARES Act.--Of the unexpended balances remaining from amounts 
made available under the heading ``Small Business Administration--
Business Loans Program Account, CARES Act'' in section 1107(a)(1) of 
the Coronavirus Aid, Relief, and Economic Security Act (15 U.S.C. 
9006(a)(1)) $1,904,000,000 shall be returned to the Treasury.

                      TITLE VI--BUDGETARY EFFECTS

SEC. 601. EMERGENCY DESIGNATION.

    (a) In General.--The amounts provided under the this Act and the 
amendments made by this Act are designated as an emergency requirement 
pursuant to section 4(g) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 (2 
U.S.C. 933(g)).
    (b) House and Senate.--This Act and the amendments made by this Act 
are designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to subsections (a) 
and (b) of section 4001 of S. Con. Res. 14 (117th Congress), the 
concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2022.
                                                       Calendar No. 344

117th CONGRESS

  2d Session

                                S. 4008

_______________________________________________________________________

                                 A BILL

  To provide COVID relief for restaurants, gyms, minor league sports 
    teams, border businesses, live venue service providers, exclave 
         businesses, and providers of transportation services.

_______________________________________________________________________

                             April 6, 2022

            Read the second time and placed on the calendar
